Welcome to our Behind the Markets Podcast. I'm your host, Jeremy Schwartz, Global CIO at WisdomTree. Alongside War and Finance Professor Jeremy Siegel, who's also a Senior Economist for WisdomTree, we tackle the latest market trends every week. I'm also joined by my deep-rooted macro colleagues, Samuel Rines, Jeff Winnegar, and Chris Gannatti. Let's dive into this week's show. Well, team, thank you all for joining us. This is our third live session of Behind the Markets. Also, we're using the recordings today for Behind the Markets. We also have, I think we're going to do it again next Friday with all the headlines coming up. Stay tuned for an invite next week as well. We're continuing this series with all the action, the Market Professor, there's headlines up and down, and it'd be great to just get your latest take. Then we'll go to Sam and Kevin for some of their views on the headlines in the deal-making for Sam and Kevin on the Fed. Powell, Professor, I'm sure you might be reacting to these headlines from Trump about Powell also, so we'll kick it over to you to kick us off here. Yeah. Okay, so let me mention a couple of things. Let me talk about Powell for a second here. You know, there's very few things about that I agree with Trump certainly about all this tariff thing, but believe it or not, I agree with him actually that Powell should seriously consider lowering rates. I was actually rather surprised by his testimony for two reasons. One, he did not acknowledge how good both the PPI and the CPI were last month. And secondly, he started talking about inflationary expectations, which we certainly see in the survey data, but not that much in the other data. And he emphasized an awful lot about the tariff inflation destabilizing or potentially destabilizing inflationary expectations. Now, that was something that in his March FOMC meeting, he played down. He said that, you know, sort of that's a one time increase. Most economists think that's a supply shock, a negative one to be sure, but one that you not necessarily should think about raising rates. Moreover, I've, as you know, I pay attention to the money supply a lot, given all my studies, and the money supply growth has been pretty weak over the last 12 months. I mean, we've been averaging four, four and a half percent. We should be going at least five and a half percent. So we're not, you know, this is not an inflationary liquidity environment. And he should think about being preemptive. Now, it certainly doesn't look like that's going to happen on the May meeting, although June meeting it might. But listen, I, you know, I think these, you know that. Everyone who's listened to me know I'm very negative on the economic impact of these tariffs. Nonetheless, and you know, that's one reason I think he should think about lowering rates going forward, even if we get an inflation bump, that supply side bumps. Now, let me let me just reemphasize the inflation we had during the pandemic started out for a few months as a supply side bump and then went into a huge demand bump with, you know, $5 trillion worth of budget deficits and money that was just thrown at everybody. I mean, that was the sustained inflation. We've not seen that at all this time. So that's something that I think is important. Let me also mention that the real data, again, we got claims, as you know, Thursday showed a slight decrease. It's going to be clouded by the fact that, listen, there's a little bit of a rush of buying, maybe more than a widow, ahead of cheriffs. So, you know, I mean, people will say, well, you know, do we see spending go down? No, you might see spending go up, but it's all borrowed against the future. So, but it's gonna be hard to interpret that because, you know, that spending will go up. By the way, you know, the first quarter, the current, you know, Wall Street is between 0 and 1% GDP for the first quarter. The Atlanta Fed is still slightly negative, even with their upgraded with gold imports. If you take those out, they're minus 2. I think, you know, Wall Street's right between 0 and a half, but I'll tell you, the marginal error is, we could see a negative print on this on this first quarter. And, you know, rule of thumb, two negative prints on two quarters is considered a recession. So, you know, we, we could be very, very close even though we're going to see some Russia buying that we see right now. An interesting statistic, for those of you who follow PolyMarket, you know, the markets that, you know, like Cauchi and PolyMarket predicted and others that putting contracts where people put real money on what it is. There's one contract on PolyMarket is what, how much will President Trump collect in tariffs in 2025? And they give you various dollar ranges. The max, the one where the biggest money is placed is the 100 to 200 billion dollar range. By the way, which is only 2% of one year's government spending. So it's not, it's, it's, or 2% of government taxes, maybe 3, 2.5 because we don't quite collect as much taxes. That's why we have a deficit. But it's a trivial amount. You know, I mean, Trump himself claims 3 to 600 billion dollars. But when you put 145% tariffs on, you basically have an embargo against China, which could really make that go down to zero. So you're not collecting any revenue unless they squeeze it out some other way. All these things, of course, are costly going forward. But I thought that that's a that's an interesting statistic. By the way, there's also a contract of percent that think there will be a recession in 2025. It is over 50, between 50 and 60. I would say Wall Street is between 40 and 50. So, you know, it's it's I actually think if I if I had to, I think it's over 50. Now, you know, I don't think it's 75 or 80. Not yet. And of course, it all depends on what Trump does. What one should also remember, we're going to get deals. He's very close to a deal, close to a deal with Japan and all that. And that will temporarily excite the market. But it's going to be much less there than meets the eye. Let's face it, they're going to promise to do some things. They're going to open up some markets. And, you know, I have said repeatedly that even if they took off all tariff and non-tariff barriers, the US would run a rather sizable trade deficit. The trade deficit is because of the dollars flowing abroad that they want to invest in the US. And it is necessary to have a... If you want to be the reserve currency, you got to have a trade deficit. The void deficit is not an emergency. It was not an emergency. And it has never been an emergency, the trade deficit. I remember people telling me 30 years ago, it was an emergency and it would cause a crash of the dower. And I laughed at that. 30 years later, we've had ever... We had 30 consecutive years of trade deficit since then. The dower is stronger than it was when people were telling me how terrible the trade deficit was. But that's another issue. Let's talk a little bit about earnings. So, I don't know, you have several types of CEOs. You have one, you know, on the earnings. So what does the earnings tell us from the first quarter? Almost nothing about what's going to happen over the rest of this year. Now, let me qualify that. I mean, what happened to UNH today clearly tells you something about UNH and what's going to happen this year. That's nothing to do with tariffs, what happened to UNH, right? So clearly there is firm, specific information in there. But certainly don't think that there's any information in there that has anything to do with what the demand is going to be later on. Now you say, well, then isn't the CEO responsible for giving a forecast? Well, some CEOs do their homework and some CEOs don't do their homework. I'm Kirby of a United Airlines said, all right, we don't have a recession. This is going to be our earnings. And, you know, our earnings are going to be 50% lower if there's a recession. Whoa. Which is right, actually, could be much lower than even what he said, because, you know, airlines have tight margins and very cyclical. But, you know, there's there's one person. Listen, what I think every CEO right now, of every public company on his or her earnings call, I mean, they should sit down with management and say, okay, given the current tariffs, let's make our best guess of what earnings are going to be later on. Most of them, oh, I don't know what it's going to be, so I'm not doing the homework to tell you. You know, basically, that's what a lot of them say. We have all this uncertainty, uncertainty. Well, yes, there's always a world of uncertainty. Well, tell us how you think your business is going to be affected by it. I don't see a lot of that. Of course, it's very early in the reporting season. But the truth of the matter is it's the responsibility of the CEOs and management to get together. Now, by the way, you know, I think they should give several scenarios. What it is right now, with China, what it is right now. And they probably should give the base. What worries me is that, you know, Trump almost talks like the 10% across the board is going to be the, you know, the lower bound. And other people say no, but, you know, that's the lower bound. And then, of course, if you're 10% across the bound, it's sort of like 20% would be the best you could hope from China. Okay, give us a 10, 20%. How does that affect your, your, your, I mean, it requires some brain power and some work. But that's the only way you do it. I mean, that's, you know, I mean, the CEOs have to have to do that. I think they really want to inform their shareholders of what's going to happen in the future. Of course, you know, those that compile the estimates of S&P earnings, I'll be listening to them. I mean, all those earnings estimates that you see up there, virtually all of them are pre-tariff, you know, pre-April 2nd. And, and, and, and, and what we see, almost nothing is accounted for, and they're not going to change it. That's not what they do. They don't know. They'll know when the CEOs know, and then CEOs would, if the CEOs can make a guess on it, then they can change it downward. That's what I would say is their responsibility. So, you know, I mean, the only clues we have is the surveys are really terrible. I mean, almost all surveys are dismal going forward. All right. Let me say one other thing. You know, I think when I look at the market, if he says we got a deal here, a deal here, that'll give a push to the market. It certainly will, and it encourages the market if we start getting deals. But, you know, I would say that, you know, if it doesn't go below the base 10 and the base 20 for China, as I've been saying, it's going to be very hard to get to the all time highs that we experience in February. You know, I think that this is a, you know, I would kind of say, without a real reversal on this and, you know, the damage it's done in terms of how you get around the supply change and all the rest. It's not, it's going to be, it's going to be hard to, you know, I would say, I see a ceiling kind of until that is removed of maybe, you know, 10% below that high that we got. And, you know, obviously, there's an awful lot of emotion there. I think that the excitement, I mean, you know, as I say, you know, my feeling is the amount of manufacturing jobs that all this will bring back is going to be minimal compared to the amount we lost. It is still not competitive for us to produce. Most of what is produced abroad is not competitive to produce in the United States. And we'll do so only at higher costs and lower real incomes for those people in the United States. Let me just finish as I've been talking to our crew here, and I'm going to let, you know, Kevin and Sam talk about it. It was a good day for WisdomTree type stocks. And I think it will be a good day. You know, I think, you know, certainly UNH was a shock, but, you know, I think, you know, I see a narrative change on AI as being vulnerable in all these situations. And it's more than just the tear. It started before the tariffs. And, you know, if we do get reductions in interest rates, by the way, let me say the following. And this is going to be a very difficult situation for Powell. Because if the economy does show some weakness after this pre-tariff buying occurs, and Powell does not lower rates, then Trump has a scapegoat automatically in Jay Powell. He said, OK, why are we having a recession now? Because Powell is not lowering rates. Look at the ECB is lowering rates. Everyone else is lowering rates. Oil is down. This is down. That is down. Why aren't you lowering rates? And then he has the scapegoat. He says he's going to stick with him for a year. Technically, I don't think he can remove him without impeachment. I don't think that's going to happen. But he can transfer the blame for his own disruption of the economy to Jay Powell. That's the reason why, you know, otherwise we would have a boom right now. I'm negotiating all this. Got to watch out for that. I mean, not watch out for that. That's a political prediction there in terms of transferring blame on tariffs being cause of a recession. If indeed we do have one to to the Fed and Jay Powell. I'm more and more thinking that that's something that could could very well occur. With that, who wants to go next, Kevin? Sure, you know, certainly things are a little bit calmer in the bond market today. We've gotten a number of questions about thoughts on the bond market, what's happened, that there have been dumping from China and Japan last week. Interesting, we get every month the TICS data, it's known from the Treasury. But unfortunately, it's with a one month lag. But I thought it was interesting that both Japan and China for the second month in a row actually added to their Treasury holding so far this year. But there's been no evidence that we have been able to really see a smoking gun of any kind of selling or liquidation from China or Japan. Now, could there have been foreign selling? Absolutely. Bringing it home a little bit, say maybe in the European Union, perhaps bringing money into the Bund market. Bunds have outperformed Treasuries of late. That's not surprising, but I think it's a short run phenomenon. We've been down the road so many times that people are going to dump Treasuries, it's going to be a whole changing order. We've been there, we've done that. We were joking on an office hours yesterday. I remember Giselle Bunshin saying that she wanted to get paid in euros, however many years ago and not in US dollars, tongue in cheek. I think what we saw in the bond market was some dislocations for sure. I don't want to dismiss that. You had a reversal of that initial flight to quality trade post-liberation day. You had some further unwinding of trades and de-leveraging per se. People just selling money to raise cash. When you get this confluence of factors and you don't have the same kind of intermediaries in the system as you've had in the past, you can get this turbulence, this dislocation. I thought it was interesting that maybe the Deputy Treasury Secretary, maybe Besson, I don't know which one. They were talking about perhaps putting a pause on the SLR, the Supplemental Leverage Ratio, which is part of the Basel Accords, where banks have to hold capital in reserve for even holding treasuries. When we went through COVID, the Fed actually suspended that to help the plumbing work a little bit better. In my opinion, Professor, when I hear you speaking about the Fed, I do think it's more of that macro thing. I get asked a lot of times, well, there's problems in the markets or the treasury market, the bond market, the Fed's going to cut rates. They tend to go to the balance sheet first. That's not the reason. Yeah, I agree with you. Right. The other thing, why not? Say May, June comes along, why not just NQT at this point in time? Or if they wanted to like in 2019, they could resume quantitative ease as well. I think right now, if I was a betting man, what I find interesting, prior to Powell's comments yesterday, I was thinking, there's no way that if the employment numbers, the next couple of months, begin to cool a lot more than expected. That's what gave us the 50 basis point rate cut in September. I think Powell would cave and that he would then cut rates. But when you read Tom and Terry today, it made it seem like, oh no, inflation may be the 1A part of the dual mandate and employment 1B. I still think when the chips are down, and if the economy begins to falter, the employment numbers begin to falter, I think Powell would definitely relent. What bothers me is I would say, Powell used it at one of his press conferences, Waller used it last week. I can't believe, Professor, they're coming back and saying transitory again. It's like, can we retire that T word for a little bit? I mean, the tariffs is theoretically a one-time increase in prices. So, I mean, if you call it a one-time shock, I mean, in the same way that the first few months of COVID was, and then they poured all the money on it. And then, you know, when you increase the money by 30%, you're going to have, you know, 30% inflation over the next three, four years. That's, you know, I predicted it, you know, after one month, two months, exactly, almost exactly what happened. They're not pouring money on this. We don't, you know, we don't see a $3 trillion rescue plan at all to offset the trade. I mean, we're going to have some Trump tax cuts to be sure. We've got a little bit of revenue maybe from the tariffs, but nothing like what happened during the, first of all, the very end of the Trump administration and the whole Biden administration, the Biden administration, the one that really poured the gasoline on the fire. So we just don't see that. But it is a it is a one time shock. It's going to bump up prices depending on how high they stay. But, you know, if the Fed does not, you know, accommodate that with a abnormal increase in the money supply, like they they completely accommodated it in 2020, 21 and 22, then that will be a one shot increase in inflation and then a stoppage at that. Yes, they could stop quantitative easing tightening. You know, my position is that that quantitative easing tightening is over thought to be an influence on the real economy. It's the interest rate that's really important. And as we know, there are probably $10 trillion of loans that are pegged basis point to basis point to the Fed's rate. Now, what I mean, I mean, it isn't like it's four and a third. You know, it's like the prime rate is set exactly 300 basis points above the Fed funds. And then you get two or one or a half over prime. So everyone's different. A LIBOR is all set, a SOFR is all set. And so, I mean, basically, they all go off that rate at different levels, but they're tied to that rate. So that would make a real difference. And would it could it stop a recession? Probably not. And that's what was going to be really mild. Would it help? Absolutely. Keep it from being severe. And if it was going to be mild, actually keep us out of it. Yes. I mean, this has been the stance all the time. The Fed can help, but the Fed cannot completely offset. So I agree. Once we see the employment numbers, we see... Listen, there's not going to be an... Until no one has now... Everyone here is on the news. The cars are going to be X, 000 more or whatever. They're buying. Inventories are down. They're keeping the prices pretty much the same. But until someone goes to staples or something else and said, you know, I bought this for $10, and now it's 15 or 20 because it came from China. Wow. I mean, that's when you really get the political pressure. I mean, everything is not theoretical. Oh, yeah, this is going to happen. That's going to happen. Maybe they'll cut my taxes enough so that, you know, I'll make enough more to offset whatever this is going to be. And I, you know, people don't believe things until they see it. And nobody has seen it. It's been all awk so far. Until they see it and go in there and see the prices are higher. Whoa. OK. Now, you know, then that's why, you know, that's why the actual public opinion polls have showed a very slight deterioration for Trump. I mean, he has gone unfavorable from favorable, but a very mild rate because no one has seen it yet. My feeling is once they see it, that that could be far more detrimental and hopefully give them the impetus to make a lot of deals that gets us out of that situation. But I can't guarantee I wish I could. I can't get into his mind to know what he's going to think about something like that. Sam, that might be a good entree for you as one of our, as our, whose focus, you're focused a lot on the international deals and sort of true political dynamics. Any commentary from what you're seeing this week? I mean, what I'm seeing this week is pretty interesting returns on the non-U.S. front. And, you know, when you look at the US., there's also been some pretty interesting under the surface returns for dividend payers, etc. That, you know, are kind of, you know, call it tariff-immune or at least tariff-aware, to a degree. But when you look at what happened with Japan, right, you had a commentary of, hey, you know, we had a good discussion with Japan from Trump. Now, Japan was like, yeah, you know, not a whole lot happened, but it didn't really matter. Japan was going to run anyway because Trump said it looked pretty good. If you look at the trade-sensitive countries, whether it's India, whether it's Japan, South Korea, Mexico, they've done very, very well this week. And one of the reasons they've done well is the suspicion that you're going to have a bleed of these positive headlines for countries. So while it might not be great for S&P, NASDAQ, Dow Jones, if you can even call that an index, maybe it isn't, but it is going to be good for the countries that are cutting these fields. These countries have real economies. They have real outlooks. They have, you know, they're not just tied to the US. They are global in nature. So while a lot of us get like, you know, get caught up in, you know, what's going on with the S&P or the NASDAQ, you know, it's not all about that, right? A lot of countries outside of the US., a lot of equity indices outside of the US have done extraordinarily well, even with the somewhat negative headlines on tariffs. And for me, that is a signal of, hey, maybe when it comes to a trade war, these countries with relatively low multiples and very well-run companies, that might be the place to look in this type of scenario instead of just looking at the US. So that's the way that I'm approaching it. And I think it's worth taking a peek at some of the allies and trade partners that the US has, that may or may not be a great place to put money, not just for the next 12 to 18 months, but for the next decade or so. A lot of people are asking about the mentality on the general trends in the bull market and whether it seems like you're cautious in saying sort of 10 percent, that we won't go back to those highs. How do you approach your long-term thinking with that caution today? How do you balance those two? Well, okay. So if we have these tariffs, I mean, first of all, you know, how many years are going to have terrorists? I mean, you know, I mean, Trump is president for three and a half years. Who knows who the next one's going to be? And he can meet an executive order and take them all off. So you know, we get under that. And my feeling is not going to happen because if it's unpopular and doesn't do anything for the economy and the markets, they'll be taken off beforehand. So it does nothing negative for my long run. In fact, one could argue if you think eventually they're going to be taken off, you're buying the market 15 percent cheaper now than you did in February. You're still buying the market more expensive than you did two years ago, but 15 percent cheaper than you did in February. So from where, you know, and I say, while these are on, I see a kind of a ceiling there. You know, you know, looking forward from there, you know, I see them being taken off. And by the way, you know, if they do stay on, put you into a recession, I mean, I don't see any way they could stay on. And I think the market would rally because then they know that the next president is going to be taking them off. So, and Trump, no matter how much we talk about third term, is not going to be the next president. Let me assure you, no one's going to have to, you know, no one can get another amendment through there. So, you know, so, you know, long run stocks are still the... I think bonds look worse than ever because the deficit is certainly not being helped by Trump. I mean, if you want to look long run, so, you're buying 4.3 now, and with no deficit control, and we'll keep on talking. I love stocks for inflation protection, and I hate bonds for it. And the tips are 2.0, so, you know, that's it, you're getting there. Not enough. I mean, so, yeah, no, it absolutely doesn't, you know, doesn't change my long run bullishness about stocks. You know, I wanted to ask Professor and Sam on this. When you look at what has been transpiring with this whole tariff, you know, you almost get the sense what this really comes down to eventually is the US and China. How does that, if at all, how does that get resolved? I mean, so say within this 90 day pause, you had Italian Prime Minister Maloney today in trying to facilitate with the EU. So say we agree with the EU, UK, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, all of that. And it comes back to the US and China. How does that get resolved? Or is that just going to be sticking like that burr, you know, that gets under in your sock or whatever. Or is that just going to stay as a uncertain negative influence potentially even as we move past, say this 90 days into 2026? What do you fear, Kevin, about China? What to answer that question, what do you fear about China? That its economy will become bigger than the US? I guarantee you it will. It has four times the number of people. And today, they only have one quarter of the per capita income, so they're the same size as us. It's very likely that that's going to move up. And they will become bigger than that. So they'll become the world's biggest economy. Now, are you fear that they will exceed us in AI? And then, could that mean military conquest beyond Taiwan and all of Asia and who knows what? I mean, are we going to fear them the way we feared the Soviet Union and communism taking over the world in 1955 and 60, when I was growing up, and 65? And 70, all the way until probably 80. I mean, is that the fear? What is your fear? My concern is more on the economic side, that not necessarily taking it out. I mean, the difference obviously, Soviet Union, the US is, we were not importing from the Soviet Union like we are from China. So what does that do to our economy? I mean, it takes a while to build factories. The only reason we produced in China is because China was much cheaper. Okay. So if we don't get China, we can go to India, we could go to other countries that are cheaper and do almost as well, but it takes time and there's frictions and costs that are involved. If we completely cut ourselves off from the rest of the world, I would say our per capita income would go down by about 5%. That would be a severe recession and that would be permanent, but it would grow from there. If we don't take advantage of what is called the division of labor, which is something that the economy established 200 years ago, it's been proven through the centuries, your real income is just going to go down. I would say maybe 5%, 6%, 7%, but from there we can grow. And from that point, but we're just saying, hey, you made it cheaper for us, now we have to make it ourselves. It won't be as cheap, so we're not going to be as rich. Doesn't mean we're not going to get richer. We're just going to be below the income level that we had before. By the way, China is not cracking. They're not cracking at all. And actually, I read she's proposal, at least as reported in Bloomberg. It was really quite weird. They laid out so much better than Trump. Exactly what they're going to have. Trade representative. They would prefer, they'd be, they said, I'd be honored for Trump to be, you know, there, but I don't think it would be best for him to be in the negotiations. They have to respect China. They have, this is how it would go. They laid out a procedure to at least start the negotiations. Trump has not responded to my knowledge on that. I mean, Trump, to me, you know, said they're going to negotiate. He hasn't set the parameters on some of these negotiations. I don't know what, what, what, what they're going to be. All I do know is that, again, if I'm going to restate what I said before, if every country lowered everything, so if every country lowered every, if we went to a total free trade country world, yes, we would be better off. One or 2% probably better, better off if we, everyone eliminated all their tariffs. If we cut off China and we cut off India and we cut off everyone from trade, then we would be five, six, 7% worse off. I'm just giving top of the heads, given types of models that have been done. We could grow from there, but that's it. So I say, well, you know, what do you fear about China? What's your real concern about China? China will become the biggest economy in the world in 20 years. And in my opinion, there's absolutely nothing we can do about that. And then there's a question of why should we do anything about that? There's been a few questions coming up about this related to how to think about the US versus foreign markets in portfolios. We've always talked about global diversification and the attractors of that. Often we get critiqued even just trying to be closer to neutral to the MSCI world. People still like to be overweight. The US partly because the US outperformed everything for the last 15 years, but any. Until the last six weeks, right? Yeah. I mean, when we talked about this on our last one, but it's worth repeating, we are by far the most expensive market in the world. Listen, there is US exceptionalism. This isn't over. As I say, Trump has three and a half more years, and who knows what the tariffs are going to be. And he's not shutting down new entrepreneurs. Anyone can do an IPO, a new idea and all the rest. So, I mean, it's a question that you can free to pursue any sort of new idea and finance it in the US. And I mean, it attracts the mavericks. It attracts those people that like to think out of the box. We have the best country in the world thinking outside the box. We actually lionize people who think outside the box. In contrast to much in Asia, where they're not as encouraged to think outside the box. It's all competition to meet America or whatever, but you don't ever disturb the social order by thinking out of the box. You don't start a company that could kill employment in a million of a million people or a half a million people because it's a new idea in the US is one of the few countries in the world you can really do that because we are founded on those principles. And those are these are the these are the ingredients that have made America great over time. And you know, they're still there. So now, with all that being with all that being said, does that deserve a 22 PE versus a 15 PE on Europe? Well, we we pointed out that in the long run, the differential and PEs become more important than the differential of earnings growth. Earnings growth is really important in the short run. PEs are really important. Valuations become the most important in the long run. It depends on what kind of portfolio you are setting up. That's what's important. So I still see PEs much lower around the world. And going for the long run, I'm not going to give them up. Certainly, given the events of the last six weeks. By the way, I do not call it Liberation Day. What was that? April 2nd. I call that Liquidation Day. So I mean, I don't think it liberated us from anything whatsoever. I think that day will in history be a dark day in the economic history of the US. Not that it won't be recoverable from. We've had a number of other dark days. But, you know, I certainly think it is a misnamed day, as I thought from the very day that he presented it. Tim, do you want to touch quickly on your allocation US versus foreign and some of the models that you look over? Oh, so we are very overweight non-US equities, particularly at the moment. That's where I would suggest there's some very interesting opportunities to take advantage of. Not only are they cheaper, but some of them have much better growth opportunities as we move forward. They are not as exposed to tariffs. If you want to dig in and really spend the time on the individual equities and indices, there are some places that really are tariff immune or at least very, very much not exposed to the tariffs even on the headline figure. If you're willing to put in the time, put in the effort, there's a lot of opportunities outside of the US. Dollar is strong and it doesn't matter that you've had a few down days on the dollar. Dollar remains strong, particularly on a real broad basis. It's one of those areas where if you want to pay attention to the next decade, it might not be US equities. It might be outside of the US. Kevin, maybe another word for you. Paul wrote in about treasury, MBS super sectors and high yields and momentum in some of those for the last few months and asked a question about the treasury market as a recession indicator. I'm not sure exactly where he's going with that question. We could follow up with him. But any other comments, Kevin, as we wrap up the hour that you would get to? Yeah. Real quickly, there was a question about munis, which we don't really talk all that much about. I find it interesting because we are eventually going to turn the page and get to the extension of the Trump 1.0 tax cuts. There's been some concerns that perhaps once again, the tax exemption status could be altered or perhaps eliminated, and we really don't see that as happening. I think for the most part that the muni federal tax exemption will stay in place. The one thing that I would note, could there be some exceptions carved out? Maybe some private activity bonds or something like that. That's not without the realm of possibility. What we're looking at, talking about relative value opportunities, munis have cheapened up a lot here over the last month or so, and that would be an area, I think, of fixed income for investors perhaps take a look at. Very good. Professor, any closing thoughts for you? We'll do it again. It looks like we're going to try to do Friday, 9 a.m. next week. Yeah. Friday, 9 a.m. Of course, we have a three-day weekend, Good Friday Easter. But that seems to work well. We want your feedback of you're enjoying them. And I'm happy to continue to discuss the markets. We always appreciate getting your insights, Sam. Kevin, Professor, always great to talk to you. Thanks again for doing this. Have a great holiday weekend. We'll talk to you all again next week. All right, we're going to do the deep-rooted Macro crew back together for the first time in a little while. We've got Sam, Chris, Jeff. We're talking post-after-hours discussion, post-theagle call, getting everybody's take. You know, the professor has been a bit grisly on these calls. He's been a little bit more cautious than we tend to get him, but he's also sort of very bearish bonds over the long run. You're hearing him talk about 2% tip seal not being attractive at all. Guys, what do you think? Sam, we'll take it to you. I mean, you know, stocks are kind of for the short run, right? You know, they're not for the long run. You know, if you want them to, you know, if you're positioning as a hedge in a portfolio, you're renting, you're not holding for life. So, you know, to a certain degree, I kind of get where he's coming from. But when it comes to the equity side, like, I mean, I haven't, you know, you haven't seen this kind of entry point for everything X, you know, call it everything X, US in a very long time. Like, it's a pretty intriguing moment to be able to pick your spot here. Like, you've got, you've got dividend payers in the US trading pretty cheaply, trading very well. You've got Japan, India, South Korea, Mexico, Eastern Europe, like a lot of places look really, really interesting over the next five, 10 years. To me, this is really a moment to be saying, I probably have too much cash and I probably own too many, call it cash like equivalent bonds. What am I doing with that allocation? I was waiting for a drawdown. Am I waiting for a bigger one? Probably shouldn't. You're bleeding out a lot of positive headlines, whether it's trade agreements with Japan or the potential for one, whether it's positives with Maloney and Italy. If you're waiting for a better entry point, I'm sorry, this might be it. Jeff, you had a X post that went a bit viral this week, talking about the bearishness out there. You got Siegel's bearishness. Maybe as a new indicator, you could add to your series. Give us your tweet on bearishness and what it says to you. Yeah. This is one of these things. The timing mechanism on some of these things is, you take a lot of these weekly surveys and you say, okay, well, was the peak of the bearishness that I'm seeing on some print from a sentiment survey? Was that already several days ago? For many of these, that is the accurate assessments. You might want to take some of it with a grain of salt. Also, look, we're no longer at 4,900 on the S&P. We've snapped back a little bit up to 52 and change. High 52s actually on the S&P. A good chunk of the gains that could be indicated from these contrary indicators have been made. That's part of the reality here. But what I was looking at, and it did resonate, I think, with Twitter because there's a lot of people are saying, hey, was this a little too much to be sending these markets spinning like this? In reaction to this, when in our own memory of the last quarter-central, we have ostensibly bigger events in the form of September 11th, in the collapse of the banks, and the insurance companies back in 08, and of course, the COVID lockdowns. I think that all three of those were certainly in my own personal psyche, a bigger deal than anything I've witnessed in the last four to eight weeks. But when you take a look at some of these surveys, the American Association of Individual Investors, for example, the AAII survey, reaching something like the third or fourth highest number of bears in history of that survey, which commenced pre-87 crash, Jeremy. When you look at the VIX, which was, help me guys, like the 9th of April, so in a matter of the last five or ten sessions, the VIX was at 60. It's now tapered down. I saw across the tape, it was at 29 today, but even a 29 handle, guys, that's a big print. I could see we're doing audio only. Sam is doing the affirmative eyebrows for me. Yeah, 29 on the VIX is still a pretty big fear gauge on that one. Then you have the Investors Intelligence Survey. On that one, one of the questions is, do you yourself an advisor who writes newsletters, that's who who responds to the II survey? Do you expect a correction? That was another one that was off the charts on multi-year tallies. The contrarian bones in my body are saying to myself, I know there's 145 or whatever the heck the number is percent tariff on the Chinese, and I know that we could get a tweet at any given moment. But this is like going long equities in the fourth quarter of 08. It's like going long equities in March of 2020. I'm bullish. We had your 15 reasons to be bullish last week. If you missed that, people can go back to it. But this extremeness on sentiment is definitely interesting. I'm going to come to Chris. We focus a lot on tech. Tech has been in the news. We're talking about how the dividends and value stocks have been holding up this year. There's definitely been some rotation to the defensiveness of that. But you've got headlines. It's fascinating. Google lost another case. It seems like just as people are calling them a monopoly, just as everybody is worried about Google's valuation because people are like, nobody's going to use Google anymore. It's amazing where this stuff comes that AI is going to disrupt it, Chad's GBT is going to disrupt it. Maybe it's all self-correcting. They don't need to find Google on this monopoly. But you also got Meta in the headlines also on some regulatory dynamics. Chris, what are you seeing here in the tech world? You're right. It's been an active week in the courts. Google's case and Meta's, Google's case, I guess, was finishing up, or at least finishing up the next chapter. These things tend to take years. Meta's was, it's been an ongoing issue, this issue that Mark Zuckerberg, we all know he purchased Instagram. That was great. We all know he purchased WhatsApp. That was great for the company. The thought is, are they a monopoly in social media? FTC is arguing it one way. Facebook's arguing it another way. Who knows when we'll get the official answer or how the appeals will go. But it's been interesting to see all these different court cases. NVIDIA has been another one where you probably see your blood pressure going up, going down because I think it was Monday, there was the announcement, 500 billion investment in the US, building AI supercomputers in the US. Trump taking a victory lap on a video that I saw basically saying, the reason that NVIDIA is doing that is because of tariffs, the most beautiful word in the English language. Then the next day, I wasn't expecting this, I was on a trip in Miami, wake up. NVIDIA takes 5.5 billion right down on inventory because it can't sell the H20 chip at all into China anymore, which was the specific NVIDIA chip that was designed to the specifications so that it could be sold at least in the Biden administration era. That's no longer the case. But then today, I see Jensen Huang is going to Beijing for the meetings. Up down, so many different angles and stories. I personally always come back to the fact that AI, people are saying it's now a bearish topic. I disagree from the standpoint of if we were truly excited about AI in recent years, this is something that plays out over 10 years plus. It transforms so much of what we do in almost every individual industry and workflow. That doesn't mean you get incredible shareholder returns every year. We have to recognize NVIDIA alone went from like $400 or $500 billion in market cap to $3.2 trillion in market cap close to the peak. An incredible amount of value was added, is probably still there relative to where we started. But yes, like everyone's saying, a lot of these stocks are now 15, 20, maybe in some cases more than 20 percent cheaper than they were. The big message that we were putting out there in Miami was, if you can stomach and have a bit of patience, because you don't know what the next tweet is going to be, these are some of still the best businesses in the world. They're doing things where there really is no Western alternative. The biggest complaint towards the end of last year was not that any individual one had a problem, it was, but they're so expensive, and that's now changed. Hey, Jeremy, there was a meta reference. I pulled up meta on one of these screens here. You have a market multiple on this name at this point. $25.01 street consensus on calendar 25 for the security. This is a $501 stock, it's a 20 times earnings. There's definitely some concerns on this China story, like Xi and Intimu were major spenders on ads for both Google, Meta, all over these other ad platforms. There's a bunch of these smaller stocks, like Applovin is named in some of them as one of these had benefits from sort of the spending on ads. Sam, you thought about Meta as part of some of the different baskets you've looked at over the years. Any worry about this spending from China's, I guess, e-commerce platforms that's gonna change with all this, that might be a hit to some of these ad places like Meta? So I always go back to this great cover story from Barron's. Right. I think it was 2013, might have been 2014, but let's call it 2013. And Barron's had a thumbs down instead of a thumbs up. Facebook is worth, I think it was $21. And what's really interesting is you fast forward one decade and that it's worth $21, it had $21 in earnings, almost exactly. So it was trading at a PE multiple of one when Barron X decided that it was worth $21 or whatever. To me, that is very much kind of the point we're at today where it's not as though Tmoo and these other platforms are the real drivers of the incremental revenue of Meta or of Alphabet. Do they spend a lot? Sure. Will other people take their place because there's Nellie Voigt to fill? Of course. That's the entire point of capitalism. You give a giant void of potential consumption and somebody's going to fill it. So to me, yeah, you might have a quarter where you see a little bit of pressure, but it is not as though one or two Chinese companies are going to dominate the advertising spend on these platforms. These are giant. These are insanely large and very, very integrated platforms that simply are not going one, away and two are not going to just be like, yeah, we lost Tmoo. We're going to take down our earnings guidance. It's going to be, ooh, we lost Tmoo. Who can we incentivize to advertise on our platform in their place? I mean, Meta isn't stupid. Alphabet isn't stupid. They're going to figure out who to give a little incentive to, to get on the platform and go take that market share. It's that's the report. To me, yeah, it's the same headline that we saw a decade ago, or a little over a decade ago of thumbs down. Meta is worth 21 or 22 bucks. Yeah. Okay. Meta doesn't operate in China. Alphabet doesn't operate in China. The major tech platforms in the US have always been barred from, or minus Microsoft, have always been barred from operating in China. So they're largely insulated from this rift. I think there's going to be a lot of quote unquote fake news from both sides that try to knock down the multiples and knock down the sentiment around the names. We talk a lot of China on this show here. Sam, in some of your models, you talked about that Mexico was playing their cards right. This had also been another interesting week for Latin America. There was somebody who was tweeting out about the Javier Millet trend. It's like the golden age of Latin. You got the Ecuador president winning down there. Maybe Colombia and Brazil could be next shifting towards the Malay style governments. What do you think? Is there any interesting trends there in Latin this week? Brazil is always going to be the next great place to invest. It never is, but it's always supposed to be. When it comes to what went on in Argentina, yeah, it was cool. It was good. It's a great starting point. They have a long way to go if they want to be very investible. But when it comes to the golden age of Latin America, Bahia, Brazil was the Paris of the West a century ago. Latin America to a large degree, to me is mostly playing catch up with where they were 100 years ago. And that's not necessarily a bad thing. It was and can be a very spectacular place. When I look at the LatAM space for investment, to me it's Mexico or bust at this point. You had the peso really move towards the positive this week. You've had a number of non-negative headlines, right? And non-negative headlines when it comes to Mexico and Canada, those, you know, that's a pretty important thing to consider. So overall, you've had Mexico really outperform the peers around there, particularly over the last six to eight weeks. And to me, it's you want to play with the friends of Trump and you want to play with them as close to home as possible. Guys, gold won't stop going higher. 3,300 and change. I mean, the thing looks like a chart of Yahoo in 1998. This is happening. How did Yahoo look in 2001? You don't ask about Yahoo in 2001. Gold is going higher in a situation where as an opportunity cost situation, I can get a forehandle in cash. I don't know that I could have ever foreseen something like this. If it was 0%, you know, like an old Alan Greenspan 1% or something. But this is happening against a backdrop where you can get a satisfactory yield across the yield curve. Jeremy, is gold going higher? I mean, it's hard to fight this tape. You know, one of the questions is who's been buying, where is it coming from? Was it was, you know, the there was a big narrative. I was talking a lot about sort of Bitcoin versus gold, that Bitcoin was being driven by the ETF flows. And I wasn't seeing it in the ETF flows. I think some of it has started increasing a little bit, but I wouldn't say it's dramatically there. I'd say, you know, it may be at the margin, we've seen a little bit of gold flows, but it's still been, I'd say, you haven't seen a huge wave of momentum followers, actually. I thought, I think it was more central banks at the beginning, certainly China diversifying their reserves, what they're doing with it. I don't know, my vibes aren't that gold is like the hot inflow in the ETF world. I don't get that vibe in Europe and I don't get that, maybe it's perking up a bit in the US, but I don't see it as dramatically going higher. I mean, it's one of these things where it had just been such sideways action. And Chris, it's kind of like, who do you know in your personal life who's who just sides that, hey, let me tell you about this gold miner that I bought. Nobody. I mean, it's just one of these asset classes that you have to be a real geek out like the four of us to have any interest. Nobody ever really asks unless you're related to me because of my history of gold buggery. But generally speaking, I mean, you're looking at a situation, I got a chart up here on the screen where, I mean, you had just everything absolutely tanking, anything gold miners tanking back in 11, 12, and 13, and then just dead money forever when it was all about Netflix, it was all about the old Facebook, which is now Meta and so on. Now finally some mojo here in the last couple of years. I think it's one of these situations where it's just an under owned perspective and then maybe Gannatti, maybe you know here, man. It couldn't be that once Bitcoin stopped going vertical, people said, okay, what else can I go along with my theme of I don't really like the way the system is functioning? When the miners shares in particular, there was definitely some flows in the ETFs that maybe started perking up. But I'm looking at the shares I've seen with the big gold miners ETFs that basically fell in half in the last 18 months. Even though the stocks have basically doubled from their lows in 24, they are starting to move higher, but the shares are outstanding, they're collapsing. People are taking their chips off their winds. Basically, they've been in these miners forever, and they hadn't made any money forever. And now they're like, we're perking higher, and we're selling. They're definitely selling the rally in the miners, the ETF world at least. And to Jeff, to your point on Bitcoin, the Trump administration, I don't think anyone would say the word quiet in characterizing what's going on in Washington. But it's been quieter on the Bitcoin front. I mean, on the campaign trail, this was going to be the Bitcoin presidency, the Bitcoin administration. Yes, there were the meme coins that did go out. Senator Loomis is sort of a part of the Senate banking committee. Various confirmations are on the books now. But in terms of, you know, have new things been approved to any large extent? Not really. We haven't heard too much from David Sacks, the Crypto Czar AI leader. They had that one event, but, you know, we certainly haven't been hearing all the time on that front. So I think the market is kind of in a wait and see mode, thinking, you know, when are we going to see some of the real policy on the ground, influencing the digital assets picture? Sam, tell these guys what you were telling me the other day about the corporate income tax, because I was kind of of this view here, like, hey, okay, this guy's going to get into DC and front and center in our collective psyche, in the market's views is going to be the corporate income tax. But it's been tariffs, tariffs, tariffs, and some of the stuff that was supposed to be bullish just kind of died. Yeah, I mean, it died, but it's not quite dead. There's a great scene from a movie about that. But one of the interesting things is nobody's talking about the tax package that will likely be passed. You've already had Congress kind of agree on it, and it's beginning to move forward. That's going to be positive, at least on the margin. And it's likely that one of the things you will see is, hey, revenues by your business earned in America, not earned outside the borders, will have some sort of advantage over everything else. So it is likely that you're going to see a domestic side of the equation begin to win, particularly on the tax front. You've seen that work through on the equity front, at least in terms of returns year to date in particular. But that does appear to be the Trump administration's focus at this point when it comes to taxes. And when it comes to everything else, it's very, very domestic and LI oriented. So if you're not playing on that game, you're not playing the right game. Chris, as you think about the other big things you're focused on, as we talk a little bit about the key trends for the tech companies, what else, as you're watching for this year, what else are you focused on? My favorite topic for the year remains to be cyber security. There was even an article earlier in the week about some of America's big banks and the office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and there being yet another one of these email slash data breach type scenarios and issues there. You see that every time one of these things happens, it's not like you snap your fingers and it's figured out. There's investigations, they take months. There's so much time, there's so much money, so much opportunity cost. And so the importance of cybersecurity, the fact that even if, so Professor Siegel on his prior remarks was saying, the recession probabilities might be above 50 percent. Even if that's true, can companies, businesses in today's world reduce their cybersecurity spending? They cannot. It is simply not something that is feasible. There's just simply too much risk. There's too much attention. There's too many issues. And so focusing on companies that are providing a very, very necessary service to today's businesses, today's people is quite important and only increasing in importance. So cybersecurity, I'd say it remains to be in April here, my number one topic for the year. Sam, I'm thinking, you know, we're going to be having these longer forum calls. We'll see. We'll see how long we run those. But these headlines are running. Who do you who do you predict is going to be the first country with the big deal? We've got in the running, we got India, Japan, Argentina. Who's the Indian? Japan, I think, are the biggest ones there. But you're not going as great as as the others. But what do you think? Who's going to be the first big deal? I'll I'll I'll do a trifecta. I will I'll go with Japan first. And by the way, frameworks, frameworks equal deal in this scenario because they will announce frameworks as deals, not they won't be true trade agreements. So we will go Japan followed by India. In terms of majors, by the way, I'm kicking out Vietnam and Argentina. They just don't matter. And then I'll go Mexico. Are you boxing that tri? I'm boxing that tri. That one's for horse racing people because, well, whatever, we won't get into boxing tries. Why Mexico third? Why Mexico third? Yeah. Because they already have a framework. All they have to do is nod and say, yes, we will do a few things with China. So I think they're third. It fits within USM and then the CA can come join later. I do think Japan is, I think it's conventional that they're our strong ally in Asia. They're just not a fast moving group. Having been working with Japanese for 10 years plus, it's not a fast moving group, so it'll be interesting to see this. But they showed up first, which is stunning. And Trump shows up and he's like, he's got the trade minister and Trump shows up to crash the party. Guys, let me ask you a different question. I mean, you kind of get a finger on the pulse of stuff that you feel is important and less important. And I don't want to play make believe that Jay Powell's career is not important to the stock market. I don't want to come off as that, but I feel that the amount of attention that that specific headline is getting, I want to fade it in relative importance compared to the types of things that Sam was just talking about in the market's attention span. Deals with India, deals with Japan. I mean, if you get rid of Jay Powell and move in Kevin Warsh, I mean, I don't know that that's really something that the market would view as some sort of surprise. How long, guys, how long has he been telegraphing that he just flat out doesn't like Jay Powell? I don't think it's an event since last term. Probably, I think it's a known quantity. He appointed Powell. But now he's bashing. But it's interesting. Siegel telling it's good to have actually sort of like he wants somebody to blame if things go wrong. So again, it's like he's already definitely going on the attack, saying he should be dramatically lowering rates. He's already blaming him before we even had a downturn. He's saying we should be, he's too late. He's already calling him too late Powell. So we're already getting the blame factor. It does seem like it's going to be a lot to try to remove him. Does he going to take all those actions before 16 months from now? And we have a 49.0 print on ISM manufacturing guys. So manufacturing is unable to get into that zone of expansion in the here and now. How long has it been since? It's never been able to follow services out in this cycle. It's been the problem child of the years. It's the US manufacturing PMI has been that thing that the bears frequently point to. And right now it's sitting at 49. You know, I don't know. I mean, we have to see if we get that manufacturing renaissance. I mean, you guys are probably have a better finger on the pulse of who's making the announcements here stateside for big projects, but that's the thing. You know, make in America type thing to take the concept from Narendra Modi. Got to get that number into the 50s. Well, in the Philly, not that it's a huge, key, important economic age, but the Philly Fed Index, my hometown Philly, I'm seeing sort of the third worst print going back to spring of 2020, October 2008, not dates you like, sort of like your bearishness vibe on some of your sentiment surveys for the markets, Jeff, the sort of manufacturing survey, similar vibes. So a lot of bearishness out there on these surveys. What do you mean? Manufacturing has been so bad for so long, that it might actually be like marginally positive that it's so bad for so long. Because if it actually takes off, golden, and if it doesn't, yeah, it's been what we've seen for the last four or five years. Who cares? Jeremy, you had brought up the Philly Fed. The other one that's been making the rounds a lot is these credit card delinquencies inside that Philly Fed survey. Did you see it? Like this higher and higher 30-day delinquent, 60-day delinquent, 90-day delinquent situation. How tapped out is the American consumer? This is one of those other things that's getting more and more into the collective consciousness of this market. Well, it does seem we're going to be on our toes for headlines, and this is the group that I love interpreting. So I'm going to say we're going to call it a week, but we'll have the crew back next weekend. We're going to do a live Siegel called 9 a.m. Friday, and then we'll have this group eventually doing a recap of what's going on. Thank you all for joining us. Have a great week, everybody. Thanks for listening. Please subscribe and leave us a rating to help others find the show. You can follow and engage with us on Twitter. I am at Jeremy D. Schwartz. Sam is at Samuel Rines, and Jeff is at Jeff Linear. Jeff, Chris, and I are registered representatives of Four Side Fund Services. Our discussion today was not tied to offer a sale of any investment products. Have a great week.