Two Princes and a Sadhu Today we bring to you the story of two brothers, the sons of a king and how they each followed a different path in life. Once there was a king who was very wealthy and powerful. He had two sons. Now, when the king found that he was soon to die, he was greatly troubled about his riches. He had been a wise and prudent man and had gathered his wealth by being a just ruler. He had not spent the wealth on unnecessary luxuries or expensive battles. His sons, however, cared only to spend their days in making merry. The two princes let more money slip through their fingers in a week than the king could save in a year. Therefore, he was worried about leaving his store of pearls and gold to them. When the king was on his death bed, he called an old friend, a hermit, and said to him, My good and trusted friend, I have a favour to ask. I beg you to take my wealth and bury it in your hermitage. I do not wish to leave so much wealth to my sons. They both have been given a portion of their own, and when they have spent that, let them first experience what hardship and poverty means. Only then may you bring forth the treasure and give it into their hands. I hope that after they have experienced hardship, they will spend the money wisely and lead a frugal lifestyle. The hermit did as the king had requested. A short time afterwards, the king died. No sooner had the two brothers heard of their father's death than they began to quarrel over the kingdom. As the older son was the stronger, he overcame his younger brother and drove him out of the city gates. The younger brother, now homeless and penniless, wondered what to do. At last he remembered the hermit. He was my father's friend, the prince said to himself. And a good man. I will go to him and ask him to teach me to live a noble and unselfish life as he has done. So he traveled to the hermitage. But when he entered the hut, he found it deserted. By that time, the hermit had also died. The prince resolved to make the hermitage his own and follow the example of his father's friend. All his life, he had always lived as a prince. He now started to lead the life of an ascetic. He learned to kindle the fire with his own hands. He would go to the well and fetch some water. The first time, he was unsuccessful in drawing any water. He lowered the bucket into the well, but when he drew it up, it was empty. Alas! The well is out of dry. He sighed, I must bring a ladder and go down, and dig down in order to revive it. As he reached the bottom of the well, he saw that it was not a well, but a pit. There was an entrance into a passage that was cut through the rock. The prince quickly brought an ax and began to clear the passage. There before his eyes lay piled his father's treasure. In the meantime, his brother, who was now king, was feasting day and night in the palace. When my own share of the wealth is gone, he told his ministers and generals, there is my father's wealth. We shall have no need to do anything. We can eat, drink and make merry until we die. Soon, he had exhausted all the money that his father had left for him. He decided to visit the royal treasury to withdraw some gold. However, when he went to the spot where his father's treasure had always been hidden, he found that it was gone. That same day, a neighbouring monarch declared war upon the city. Imagine, what would have transpired? The king was busy in merriment. The administration was in shambles. The soldiers did not have new weapons and the treasury was empty. There was no money left to arm the soldiers with new and improved weapons. As the enemy drew near, the king's army had to defend the city with old and outdated weapons they had at hand. In the end, the enemy was victorious. However, both kings were slain in the battle. When peace was declared, the generals from both the armies gathered together to choose a new king. The new king must be a man of peace and not of war, said one. For we each have lost many good men, and lands have been plundered for nothing. He must be prudent and not spend the wealth of the kingdom on merry-making, added another. Then they remembered the prince, the younger son who was living as a hermit. The generals and ministers from both the warring sides approached this hermit, and they proclaimed him their king. They formed a long procession, and marching to the hermitage, let the prince back to his father's throne. This story is adapted from the Jataka tales about a king, a hermit, and the two princes. Parts of this story have been modified for language and context by Gaatha's story.