Hey, it's John. So if you haven't heard, I started a newsletter related to our work on Scene on Radio. Reflections on stuff in the news, maybe behind the scenes updates at times. It's called Keeping Score. Score is spelled without the E, S-C-O-R. Get it? It's an acronym for Scene on Radio. I plan to write monthly. The first installment is out. You can find it at buttondown.com/keepingscore. If you think you can use one more newsletter in your life from me, subscribe. That's buttondown.com/keepings-c-o-r. This episode is brought to you by Progressive Insurance. You chose to hit play on this podcast today. Smart choice. Make another smart choice with AutoQuote Explorer to compare rates from multiple car insurance companies all at once. Try it at progressive.com. Progressive Casualty Insurance Company and affiliates, not available in all states or situations. Prices vary based on how you buy. On second thought, maybe I shouldn't have suggested to Michael Kliën that we meet up in a recording studio for our main interview. To test levels, I ask him what he had for breakfast. I had toast with honey. It was really amazing. I probably... Let me see. Let me get used to my little voice in here and how it sounds. But I'm probably going to talk a little louder. Yeah, that's probably about it. I guess. Wow, it feels strange because there's no echo. It has a different quality to it, just talking in this room. You feel like your thoughts stop much sooner. The point of a studio is that there's no other sound and thanks to the sound absorbing walls, no echo. It gives you that clean voice that's unobstructed but also really disembodied. Just as one sits here, I feel the different quality of space and the different quality that that also generates in timing of my speech, the different quality that it generates. The light that hits my eyes and everything is kind of like affecting the way I start thinking. And so, okay, how can I have the same quality of thought that I just had sitting outside? Being embodied is central for Michael and for his work. He's a leading social choreographer. More on what that means in a minute. On Scene on Radio, we've talked for years about the need for transformative change in people, our relationships with one another, and with the rest of the living world. Cultural change, change in the systems that shape our lives, like our so-called democracy and our so-called economy. Michael Klien approaches these things from an unusual angle. His theory of change starts not with policies or politics in the usual sense, not with ideas. It starts in the body. I am an artist, a choreographer, by training. I'm also a professor here at the Practice in Dance and a Senior Fellow of Ethics at the Kenan Institute for Ethics. He adds that he's the father of two wonderful girls and partner to his wife Christina. And so there are many roles that one plays at the same time. And all of those are equally shaping who I am and what I do in life. Take my word for it, Kliën does inhabit a body, a very tall one. He's a middle-aged guy with intense blue eyes, short salt and pepper hair, and a trimmed beard that's mostly white. He grew up in Vienna. As a boy, he tried being a dancer, then found he was a better painter but didn't like the solitude of painting. So I realized I needed to be a choreographer. I had no idea if I could become a choreographer, but eventually I went to London and studied at a conservatoire, an undergrad degree in dance and in contemporary dance, and started my touring company in the second year and became sort of reasonably successful in England. His early work was more or less conventional, involving trained dancers performing moves that he designed. He experimented with tech, having a computer algorithm decide the sequence of the dance moves. But it looked like a ballet. It didn't look like not a ballet. Before long, he says, Michael lost interest in having any say over a dancer's movements. And he came to reject the notion that only some people are dancers. 30 years later, after I started my career 30 years ago, I'm interested in everybody's movement. Everybody. Like, there's nobody I'm not interested in. He became a pioneer in social choreography. He's had work commissioned by the Irish Museum of Art, the Martha Graham Dance Company, Ballet Frankfurt, and the Athens Festival. He came to Duke as a dance professor in 2017. A couple years later, he founded the Laboratory for Social Choreography. A place where we're trying to bring together different minds, different thinkers, different doers, and experiment with new social forms. That might sound very kind of aspirational, but we try to do it really almost like as other people have petri dishes of bacteria growth and decide, you know, looking at how the cells kind of connect or how they kind of, what they do in a particular environment. That's what we're trying to do with humans. We're coming from an arts background, so we're coming from an inquiry that is maybe playful, nevertheless serious. The work or experience that Kliën is best known for is called Parliament. It involves putting a group of strangers in a room, ideally a cross section of a community, for three hours or six hours, with no devices and an agreement that they won't speak. That's about it. You just turn up, you get a 15-minute introduction. It's very clear, actually. There's nothing expected of you. Nobody will touch you. Nobody will do anything to you that you don't want to do. But you start negotiating your relations without language, in the space. Picture about 20 people in a large, empty, well-lit room, blank white walls, wooden floors. This is video of a parliament at Duke's Nasher Museum of Art in 2018. Some people are spread out, sitting or lying by themselves. One or two may be napping. One guy strolls in the background. A woman in jeans and red socks spins in circles, her arms out, then stops and sits down. I've done this now with thousands of people, parliament over the years of the last ten, roughly ten years. And there's always something happening. There's a pattern there that is, yes, it's probably cultural specific, for sure. Different countries react differently and different people from different countries. But there is this overall thing that the first 40 minutes are just hell, artificial hell. Even for me, if I take part in it, I hate it. I'm going like, why did I do this again? Nothing's happening. It's awful. It's just the worst. I'm feeling like a total fool for setting this up. And then suddenly time disappears. Suddenly everything goes, and this fear goes, the awkwardness goes. And before you know it, you're in a very sane environment, in a very strange, and to many people very sane environment. It's also not for everybody. I mean, not everybody will... And that's also interesting. It doesn't want to be like a Utopian thing. It wants to be a situation in which people can understand what our socialization does to us, and where they can understand war, what kind of politics we carry in our everyday body, and what politics we carry once we really get in touch with our bodies, with our feelings, with our senses, vis-a-vis the other. In that same video excerpt from the Duke Parliament, a cluster of people has formed in the foreground. A woman is lying on her back. Five people have decided to line up on one side of her, standing shoulder to shoulder. A man joins the cluster and extends his hand in invitation to other people sitting nearby. A few of them now join, forming a complete tight oval around the prone woman holding hands. They stand like that for a minute, heads bowed. Then most of the people in the oval sit down, cross-legged. The woman lying in the middle begins to move, turning and resting her head on someone's knee. One of the women sitting in the oval raises her hands now, her fingers fluttering. Then everybody's doing that. They shout exuberantly, some clap. They look delighted by what they've just conjured together. Then this organic little gathering, this brief experiment or ritual or whatever it was that sprouted within the larger experiment, is over. The woman who had been lying down stands smiling, walks outside the circle and plops down on the floor a few feet away. The idea of Parliament came to Michael after he moved to Greece in 2012, during that country's years long economic and political crisis. In Greece it was at a junction and you saw a democracy breaking apart in a way, like a society breaking apart. You didn't see it breaking apart, but you could see the kind of gaps appearing and the fabric ripping. And it's just not holding. People had their flat screen TV at home, but they had no food in the fridge. And they just didn't know anymore what to do. And you saw these apocalyptic scenes of everybody was in everybody's rubbish outside. And it was like a very different... It was very strange. And so I moved there because my wife is Greek and we just moved at that time. And so I decided to go to all these protests. There were these huge protests, which was like a real, almost a rehearsal of a civil war, it felt. Like a lot of Molokhov cocktails being thrown, a lot of tear gassing. And I just tried to figure out what's going on here, like what is the solution without speaking the language. And that was in. So I tried to kind of just get it by being there. And I marched with all kinds of people and I tried to be in all different sides, just being there and feeling the place. And then I was thinking, okay, if I create a choreographic work, what would that be? What could that do? I decided that everybody is just blaming each other. Nobody has an idea of whatever is going on. Let's almost make a tabula rasa, like a, let's empty out. Let's get all kinds of people. I didn't do that directly, but, you know, metaphorically, the police and the people in power, and the anarchists and the worker unions, let's get them all in one space together. And without words, shut the door, and then see what happens. An Athens Art Museum commissioned Parliament, and it ran for several days, with 150 Athenians taking part for hours at a time. Notice the name, Parliament, a place where representatives of a society gather to negotiate rules and the social contract. But in Kliën's Parliament, it's just movement, no speaking allowed. Part of his inspiration in stripping language out of the equation, he says, came from the wild dogs that hang around Athens' main public plaza, Syntagma or Constitution Square. There were packs of dogs, and they used to sleep always. They didn't care about all these thousands of people. Sometimes they parked at somebody, but they sort of did their own thing and had a different kind of life. And in some way, it became that. Parliament became that. And it makes you aware that we are all mammals, that there is a mammalian knowledge, a deep wisdom present in all. We came through evolution as mammals, and we got here to that point. So we think we are so smart with rationality and all that. That didn't get us that far. That's relatively young in our development. So, what got us through was a kind of a wisdom that is already inherent in our unconscious, in our bodies. And that really brings it forth. And it makes you aware that you can... All the feelings that you have towards others and all the kind of ways you position yourself even, is stripped of your social standings, you're stripped of... Everybody's the same, there's no difference between anybody who's in there. It's real democracy, it's lived democracy. Well, it's not. Maybe ideally it could be. And we're gonna get there, we still work on that. It's obviously not, I mean, you carry biases, you carry all these kind of things in it, but you negotiate them there in a completely different way. Do you have favorite reactions to the things people have said to you about this experience? I mean, it's interesting because there are people who, including myself, that really have revelatory moments in it, where you feel like you're turned inside out, upside down, and you start changing your behavior, and you feel for even for days you go in the supermarket whistling, or you start yourself like shimming around in the supermarket aisles, and you have a much softer, much less control of your social identity, I guess, or social role that you play. But that, it wears off, the effect. So it's like you can feel it wearing off, you know, you're like you're on a high, and it does feel like a trip. It does feel like you're going someplace often, for a lot of people, and you've been to some place that you've never experienced before. And you're now going back to the world, and what does that mean? So I had people who really got depressed out of going out of it into this world where suddenly you have to put on your armor again, you know, to just exist and you go like, why did we, how, how did we create this life for each other with the real cold winds of civilization, you know, like blowing right at us? When there is a way that has been felt and you experienced it, that is, that holds you in your, in your insanity in a way, or holds you in your own without needing to be anybody or anything, that holds you just because you are a person in your personhood. And that's, that's an experience that is really important. Some of Michael's other social choreography experiments are variations on Parliament, including Constitution, another project at Duke in 2023. He wanted to see if that effect, that thing that happens among a group of people moving wordlessly amongst each other, if others introduced into the space could absorb that shared vibe. He started with students in a class he was teaching. Eighteen people, and we tried to create a situation where we get creative contagiousness in the space, where eighteen people inhabit a reality that nobody else knows the rules to. But it's similar to Parliament, like they are very attuned to each other and they almost move as one organism. And what we're trying to do is by adding another hundred people that have no clue, professors, all of them, students and undergrads, from the Duke community, to the situation. And for one hour, let this contagion work, again without words. And at the end, everybody was in the same logic than this eighteen people. And we got hundred people to totally absorb it, even without wanting to. That led to the next experiment in 2024, back in Greece. He teamed up with a groundbreaking Greek theater and arts collective, and Denamé. The troupe is made up of people with and without disabilities. They have really revolutionized in Greece the way people with Down syndrome, with autism, and so on are perceived. Kliën called the work The Utopians. About 50 people with and without disabilities gathered in an empty industrial space, bathed in colorful floodlights. They moved or didn't move however they liked, alone or together. After a time, a couple hundred more people were invited in. The video of The Utopians looks different from the others, perhaps Parliament and Constitution. Neurodivergent people often move differently and with less inhibition than the neurotypical. Remember when Michael said his social choreography experiments are playful but serious? He wasn't kidding. His ultimate aspiration for a work like The Utopians is to reach for something revolutionary. Like, how would a democracy look like that is not based around parts of us? Like the democracy is really governed by rationality. Like where we make rational decisions, rational laws and so on. It again cuts off the body. And why does it do that? Because we haven't found any other way to do it. We are already pretty stretched just to get democracy on a very rational front going. But it really kind of neglects the revelations or the insights into the world neurodiversity brings to the table, or anybody in that fact brings to the table. And so we try to create a situation of this creative contagion, where the space is really, where the internal logic of the space is people with Down syndrome and autism, fully setting the tone, setting their relationality and living out a certain kind of their internal lives in movement. And then having hundreds of people coming to this with loud electronic noise and lights and turning it into a situation that is almost like a futuristic nightclub. But 200 years from now, when we've certainly figured out how we all live in a neurodiverse society fully as equals, that's how I felt. And that space created that for an hour. Like it really, I think it really did. Like it, it... I've never enjoyed a work of mine more. I felt like we're standing in a sole democratic dance floor. Part of what makes these experiences so powerful, Michael thinks, is the simple fact that everyone involved is involved. You might not be active part of it, but even just being there will affect everybody else. And some people just don't care. They will come up and hug you anyway. Because it's somebody else's space. It's not your space in a way. You're invited into it. Yeah, there's no spectators' position to be in. Yeah, no, zero. Everybody's in it. You know, it's democracy. It's like everybody's in it. There is no way. And you have to engage with this. I mean, this is at the pace of democracy. You have to engage with the stuff you don't like. You have to engage with the people you don't like or that you think you don't like. You have to engage with the people that you don't understand. I mean, as part of democracy, as a base of democracy. And go and do that now. Like, in a way, it's like almost an invitation or a... It's slightly painful. You know, a catastrophic boundary collapse. It's happening right there. You think it's gonna be catastrophic to be in this situation with all these people that you don't understand, that you have never experienced maybe even, you've never spent a day of your life with truly different kind of ways of perceptions. And that might also be people who are not traditionally seen as disabled, but that have truly different ways of reading and encoding the world. And you notice that there's nothing catastrophic about it. Then that's a huge kind of revelation, it's a huge kind of experience, that it's actually much better. Like, it feels much better, everybody knows it. That it's much, much better. Like, that there is something like better. But this is the kind of ethics that I'm interested in. Like, how can we make this world better in an ethical way, and trying to find other models of being, a different way of being in the world. Dance, and certainly social choreography, is not the sort of thing that will make you famous, famous, least of all in the United States. But in avant-garde dance circles, Michael Klien has earned renown. You can find the Athens Festival, for example, calling him an internationally acclaimed choreographer. Is it recognition of that sort that drives him? Here's a story that answers the question. Michael tells of visiting a major art museum in his home city, Vienna, and finding himself in front of a painting by the 17th century Flemish artist, Peter Paul Rubens. And these Rubens paintings, they're huge, they're enormous. And they have these big, lavish golden frames. And they have all these pink ladies, you know, floating. And I realized that when I was sitting there and meditating, you know, sort of as you get into a meditative daydreaming state, that I wasn't thinking about the Rubens at all. Like, I couldn't care less about the Rubens. I was really concerned about taking this frame, because it was massive and big. And in my mind, I was reconstructing it as a life raft. And thinking about, okay, would that life raft go all the way to the, you know, Turkish coast between Greece and Turkey? And I guess it was that time of real refugee drama. And I realized that in my mind, I didn't even care. I was like, the Rubens was maybe a sale at best. But I was really deeply invested into that life raft building. And it sort of, it really hit me, this notion of, okay, are we really, do we have the luxury of traditions in the same way than we thought we had, where we can build these depositories of our great achievements, which is a relatively new affair, these museum kind of qualities, and just celebrate and pat each other on the back for our, you know, mainly exploitative kind of cultural endeavors as nations who have these big museums. And by no means I want to, you know, kind of, you know, throw dirt at the red ruins. Great painter. And I appreciate traditions deeply. But there is a question of, do we really have the luxury to fetishize them overdoing things? Like over, if that life raft could bring over a few people, save them from drowning, then I'm happy to forget about the painting. Michael says, it frustrates him that we use only one word, art, for creative works with vastly different goals. And I make a distinction between art that is really just propaganda for the system, and which I've done as well. Because propaganda is a negative loaded term, but it doesn't have to be. It's like you're part of a system and you propagate its ideals and you amplify it. And artists really do that by beautifying the existential bargain. Like, we all are in this existential bargain by being part of a society. We might hate it individually, we might be trapped in the machine, we don't know what to do, but then we can, you know, look at these beautiful people on stage or we can listen to a piece of opera. And it sort of beautifies this bargain. It helps us to cope. It does not require to do anything else but going to the opera and give them some money, maybe. You don't have to become a better person, you don't have to do anything. You don't have to challenge yourself in any particular way. It might do that in some underlying slow dynamics, I don't know, but it's certainly not its primal aim. It's not to actually figure something out about the world and to do it together with the audience. And so the question is, what is this room there for? What could it be used for? To meaningfully engage people, to really get to another place together, to figure out stuff, to develop new things and new thinking. And not in a linear way, not like, oh, you go out of the opera and everything will have changed. No, this is a slow process. This is like social movements. This takes generations, maybe. Maybe it takes decades. Maybe some things will be solved quicker. But to actually collectively come together to really challenge each other. One of the machines we're trapped in is capitalism as we live with it now, with all its gross inequality, exploitation and catastrophic damage to the planet we depend on. I knew from previous conversations over coffee that Michael sees it that way. So I asked him how he sees his social choreography work in relation to capitalism. He starts by saying that he and any artist, anyone at all really, has to recognize their place in the present reality. You're a part of this, and I'm a capitalist in the way I've been baked. I'm a Christian the way I've been baked, might be a recovering Catholic the way I've been grown up, I might be an anti-capitalist, which I don't even know if I am fully, but because I haven't yet found a system that I would replace it with, of course. Our imagination is so stunted, famously, reference to Jameson, is so stunted that we can't even imagine the end of capitalism. So this is where I am, you know, and this is who I am. I'm part of this system, I'm part of this world that is at the forefront of propagating capitalism. Like Duke University, is at the forefront to some degree of, it develops the leaders of the world that we have. Of course, it wants, and I see there's a lot of will, to develop the leaders of the world we want. But for that, we need to take more investment and time to figure out the world we want and figure out ways to get there. Because at the moment, that's simply not in the US education system, is not integrated. There's a lot of creating the leaders for the world we have. And so that makes me totally implicated in this situation. So Michael argues that if people are going to build a much better world, it won't happen through technology or simply by smart people imagining a better reality and convincing those with power to adopt the policies to get there. It will come, he thinks, through cultural and ethical transformations that will arrive at collectively. We don't need to imagine. That's still the craziest thing. We will not need to imagine the end of capitalism, beyond capitalism, because it will just be there suddenly. It will just happen if we change our ethical conditioning between each other and our awareness and our positioning towards the planet, towards other species. So, it's a slow transformation that will happen. And then, there's no longer an after. It will just be gone already. I believe that strongly, actually. We met up one more time at a coffee shop in Durham to get out of that disembodying studio. I wanted to know how Michael sees his social choreography work in relationship to other people working for social and political change. The activism, if you want, and it took me many years to understand that I'm an activist in many ways, is that I'm trying to get to the foundation of our perception, the foundation of our awareness formation, and invite people into this process, to do this together, to get all together confused, if you want, like to destabilize the entire situation. He suggests that clearly something else is needed besides traditional political activism, journalism, and so on. I mean, just look around. I think it's not so much to have the answers. We know many of the answers for many things. If we talk about climate change, war, I mean, we have so many answers in a way that we want peace, but it, and how to do that, we would also have answers. But we cannot face the answers. Like we cannot actually implement them. There is not enough willingness to change. I give this example recently, I discussed with my students, first year students, who is for equity, for equitable, you know, chances across society. And everybody was very passionate about equity. And then I ask, and we are a duke, so remember that, who wants to give up the inheritance? Who would be for a policy that basically stops inheritance? Which would be a big, you could say, you know, a big tool, whether you like it or not. It would be a big tool for equality to come about, not a single person was prepared to forgo or support that law. So it shows up that there is a, that there is a lot of work to be done on a personal level as well. Change is not always easy. It might be very painful, but it could also be pleasurable. Michael's audacious bet, or his hope, is that work like his can create spaces where people might shake themselves out of the boxes we live in. Our paradigms, priorities, assumptions and fears, and our impoverished imaginations about what's possible. Enough to really want a different world and be willing to let go of what is, so we can bring something better into being. As for doing that work through these seemingly odd experiences, like his Parliament, he quotes Albert Camus, all great deeds and all great thoughts have a ridiculous beginning. So this notion that we need more ridiculous beginnings in all corners of society at the moment, where we can actually, some of them will just disappear into the sand or into history straight away, and some of them will lead to new things. Thanks, Michael Kliën. This episode was made by me, John Biewen. Music by Goodnight Lucas and Blue Dot Sessions. Watch this space. We'll have some more goodies for you in the coming months as we work toward another full season of Scene on Radio. The show is distributed by our friends at PRX and comes to you from the Kenan Institute for Ethics at Duke University. From PRX.