You're listening to All the Credit, a monthly podcast series brought to you by PGIM Fixed Income, an active global fixed income investment manager. Welcome to All the Credit. I'm Brian Barnhurst, global head of credit research. Today's episode is the first in a series that will explore credit markets in transition. We're going to focus on the fast growing and headline grabbing world of AVF, asset based finance. I'm fortunate to be joined by longtime colleague, co-head of Structured Products, Edwin Wilches. Edwin, great to have you on the podcast. Thanks so much, Brian. I'm really looking forward to the discussion today. So to start, AVF is a bit of a catch all. How do you define it? Sure. So AVF or asset based finance can feel a bit like an all encompassing label, and that's likely because the addressable market references trillions of dollars. At its core, AVF refers to lending that is secured by a specific set of assets that generate contractual cash flows. This can include consumer assets such as auto loans, credit cards, student loans, and can include hard assets coming from commercial sectors like transportation or digital infrastructure. It includes financial assets such as inventories or receivables, or even sectors like fund finance. It even includes things like mortgages. Now, you might say that sounds an awful lot like what we call securitized products, and that's because it is. Generally, the ABF label is used for private market investments that our teams are directly originating from issuers. PGIM has been investing in securitized products since the 1990s. Being the dad that I am, I like to joke that what is old is new again, kind of like ripped jeans and bell bottoms. In the late 90s, we were the first investors in the securitization of intellectual property rights of David Bowie, and what became the first music royalties deal, which in the last few years has once again gained popularity as the new hot subsector of ABF. So really putting all that together. At PGIM, we think it makes a lot of sense to have one securitized credit team focused on what we simply think of as asset-based finance, whether that's public or private. If I think about the evolution of this market, some things about the development of ABF are very obvious. Changes in regulation post-GFC, changes in the behavior of banks, naturally creating opportunities for others in the marketplace. On the other hand, it feels to some degree as if the excitement and the attention around ABF came a little bit out of nowhere in the last couple of years. So why is ABF garnering so much attention now? What are the attributes that have really captured the attention of both market participants and investors? Yeah, it is really a confluence of multiple things happening at the same time. So on one hand, as you mentioned, there is a secular change in how bank balance sheets are calibrated due to in part regulatory pressures, as well as kind of how they optimize their ROEs today. Post GFC, Dodd-Frank did shift the focus from banks away from taking pure credit risk to help decrease the fragility of the banking system and improve financial stability. That really meant was prop desks were dissolved, risky credit, things like high yield corporate loans became what we call today the bank loan market, CLOs, retail funds, institutional investors, obviously quite active in that trillion and a half dollar market and other things like lower credit, consumers or aircraft leasing ultimately landed on the balance sheets of non-depository financial institutions. So think whether it's securitization or even things like insurance companies and definitely private credit. So ultimately these riskier investments, if you will, landed in a part of the financial system where they weren't subject to overnight deposits, right? Well, that's all been positive. I think in the last few years, what we've also seen is the regulatory focus has shifted a bit away from just the largest banks to also the large regional banks. And naturally, this happened after Silicon Valley Bank failure and First Republic and others that really highlighted other cracks in the system that go beyond just credit risk. The consequence of this has really been some of these folks lending less to areas of the economy that, again, as we've said, have been getting loans for decades. And the unique part of this era of this transition or maybe evolution of the banking system is that a lot of the high-quality assets that sat on these bank balance sheets, and again, particularly in regional banks, has now started to come to market. So there is a clear financing need where the economy continues to grow. The balance sheets available from banks to fund this economic growth have shrunk. And the gap is getting filled both by private credit, but also by securitization. As we saw last year, record issuance across sectors like ABS and CLOs, as the market was looking for places to fund itself. At the same time, as yields increased, the opportunity set in fixed income is super attractive, right? So we're seeing a shift from insurance, pensions, corporates, and even retail into fixed income. Traditionally, when you think about investing in fixed income, it means you're buying either sovereign or corporate credit risk. So as we've seen more investors come into fixed income markets, we've also seen investors have a need or have a strong desire to diversify either existing exposures or increasing exposures across fixed income, and ABF or securitize is really where we're seeing that happen. Why are pensions and insurance folks more active? Again, it's a confluence of things happening all at once. Yields aside, if we think about US pensions, folks that weren't funded were in riskier securities, with stocks at all-time highs and high-yield risks nearing all-time tights, it means the asset portfolio has increased. At the same time, due to higher yields, the discount rate for their liabilities has increased, meaning that the funded ratios look a lot better. Putting all that together, it means that insurance folks who have been pretty active in pension risk transfers, so meaning the pension plan can now transfer its liability to another party, or pensions that don't want to do that, and they're looking to de-risk themselves, once you're at or overfunded, you don't need to take on the risks you once took, and folks are looking to move into fixed income to call it lock that in. So as we see these large pools of capital move into fixed income markets, we're seeing a real need for diversification, high quality spreads, and candidly the ability to actually get invested, which we definitely have on the public side, but the private markets offer pretty unique ability to do that as well. It's a perfect transition to exploring some of the capabilities that are core to a successful ABF platform. When you talk about an asset class that has experienced this level of growth and attention, just very naturally, there are a lot of new participants and new entrants. I find us to be a bit unique in that respect and that we're not an opportunistic investor and have actually been investing on behalf of the insurance company for decades. Structured Products has been a cornerstone of our organization in fixed income. As you think about changes and evolutions in ABF and Structured Products, how do you think about the capabilities that are truly core to an ABF platform and differentiate an ABF platform? I think there's a handful of things investors need to keep in mind. And I would say there's more than one approach that works, but there is definitely not a lot of room in terms of the core building blocks you need to make it work. So what I mean by that core building blocks, once you enter private markets, it's really important to have scale, right? So as we were thinking about how to best deliver this market opportunity to our clients, being able to lean in on relationships that we have from the existing $130 billion securitized products team was really critical to our ability to source and originate these assets. So scale is really, really important in this market. The other thing that I'd say is equally, if maybe not more important, is research. We're very bottom up focused. I do like to nuance that in addition to understanding the companies and the investments that we're making, it's also critical for securitized folks to understand the structures, because while we can forecast how cash flows may work, ultimately, the structure is going to dictate how different investors get paid. It's really critical to understand regulatory risks over time, especially when some of these assets are touching things like mortgages or consumers. For you to really dig deep in both the asset valuation, the structure and the documentation, covenants and regulatory risks, you need large teams, folks that specialize. Now, the other bit of securitized product that's quite important is the ability to think through modeling. So there is quite a quantitative aspect to what we do. So boiling all that together, you need scale, you need depth of resources, and you need really technology and quantitative methods. The importance of research always resonates with me. It's near and dear to my heart. When I think about a lot of growth and the new entrance into the market, I wonder if you're worried about the attractiveness of the opportunity set changing going forward. It's something we always wrestle with, I suppose, in really any market. I would frame it this way. You always have, call it two different risks, right? One is either spreads compress because there is more demand than supply, but then separately could mean that the financing terms that you get are going to be worse, right? So it's possible spread stays similar, but now the assets that you're financing are either of lower quality or the covenants that you get are less protective. So far, what we're seeing is neither of those things come to fruition. We've seen a little bit of spread compression, but that's just the broader market. If we want to just frame the discussion around what we normally think of as private credit, being corporate and high yield, that market is estimated to be about a trillion and a half. The estimate of ABF are anywhere from five to $50 trillion, just picking 15 because it's an easy number. You're talking about a market that if you compare it relative to corporate credit is at least 10 times the size. And while it has definitely been an area of focus for many folks, I think it's really because there is an opportunity it's a large market and spreads continue to remain pretty attractive and our ability and discipline to anchor bilateral investments remains pretty strong. So lots of new folks for sure, but we're still seeing really great pipeline. Relatedly in thinking about work capabilities, how do you balance sourcing and underwriting? So the way we've set up a team in It's One Business, Gabe Rivera and myself have the pleasure of co-leading it. We have one research team, and the way that we invest is, we'll have portfolio managers or an ABF specifically, we'll have folks that are more focused on the origination and issuer development, we'll have folks bring us opportunities. Once we do a preliminary screen of what the opportunity is and making sure that it's thematic in terms of what we think makes sense as investments more broadly, that investment opportunity gets kicked over to our research team. The research process is independent. The research team, similar to our corporate credit teams, do not report into portfolio managers or originators. And we think this segregation of duty is really, really important for us to arrive at an estimation of risk that is independent of the pressures that originators or portfolio managers might have to get invested. So the way we balance the need to originate and maybe the need to invest relative to credit and risks is really by having independence in the process. Now, it all comes together. We all will huddle and talk about the pros and cons. And our research team is really responsible for digging deep on these issuers, understanding the risks, thinking about the valuation of this asset, valuing the volatility of that asset over time. What are the value drivers? And ultimately, they come to an internal rating and an ESG score to help us quantify those risks. So ultimately, the credit team assesses the risk. And with a portfolio management team and effectively the origination team in concert work on thinking about how to price that risk and then ultimately how to construct portfolios. So we think an independent process is really important and we think it leads to better outcomes. One thing you talked about was there's a number of different styles and approaches in the marketplace. We've made a very specific and deliberate choice around not owning a captive originator. And whenever we talk about the rationale that underscores that very deliberate decision, I always find it to be really an interesting conversation. So we'd love to get your perspective on why we've decided to move forward without a captive originator. So there's different ways of originating private collateral. Usually been more the private equity folks will have originators that are helping them find investments. We have purposely not chosen to own an origination platform, largely because it does create conflicts of interest, right? So if we think about just first principles, if we own the originator, we own the equity in this company, and now I am asking our clients to buy the debt from these companies. So there is a clear conflict in terms of how you price that debt and how attractive that debt is relative to the broader market. We think our approach of not being captive to specific origination, whether it's good value or not, helps us deliver better relative value over time. I don't think that shuts the door completely on having an origination partner or even an origination business at some point in the future. I think there is a strategic reason to own them, particularly if the market is not giving you those opportunities otherwise. But again, I go back to in a market that is trillions in size, candidly, I think there's more supply of opportunities than we've seen demand, notwithstanding how strong the demand has been. So until I think we see the market continue to evolve or transition into a more invested market, we're focusing on just the best relative value and eliminating as many conflicts as we can. ABF is so broad-based. Maybe start with a basic portfolio and talk through the implications of adding diversification and then adding additional risk. It's almost similar to secure test products writ large. It really depends on what the goals of the clients are. So I'd say if honing in on, say, insurance as they're fairly active, most of the time what we're seeing is insurers are looking to ABF mostly in investment grade. They're looking at it as a great alternative or diversifier to existing investment grade debt. So back to the idea that a lot of these portfolios are corporate credit driven and it makes a lot of sense in terms of the ability to both source these assets and the spreads that we can get. Other investors will use ABF as a replacement for higher yielding investment. So within ABF, again, similar to just broader securitized products, there are situations where we might be buying a pool of whole loans. And then one investor might find the pool of whole loans attractive. And we might think that the risk of these loans is investment grade. So that would be suitable for an investment grade buyer. At the same time, that pool of whole loans can be financed, whether that's through a bank or securitization. And an investor seeking to earn higher yields or displace or simply diversify an existing private credit allocation in high yield or even private equity, candidly, the investor can focus on just the bottom portion of that securitization. Again, first principles, it's the same analysis. You're still underwriting the pool of collateral. The question is really, do you own the whole pool or do you just own a bottom portion of that exposure? So we're seeing investors really focus on both. There are other opportunities. And again, I think this comes more into the realm of owning an origination platform. But there are other parts of ABF where you can see double digit type returns, in which case truly offsetting much riskier allocations beyond high yield. And there, I think the opportunity set is interesting, but the depth is definitely not as large. Sector to your point obviously runs again, but from high quality, very liquid sectors, like AAA CLOs, all the way through to private, quite bespoke and arguably riskier sectors. If I remove the constraints and I want to really optimize the ABF opportunity set today, public, private, liquid, less liquid, how are you thinking about preferred sectors and perhaps, or interestingly, sub-sectors today across ABF where you either wouldn't invest or would remain quite skeptical of? Generally speaking, if we're just kind of doing a bit of a, call it a return bridge, right? So how do you start building blocks? So if we think of a traditional, public securitized mandate that is of higher quality, we'll maybe deliver, call it, anywhere between 75 and 100 basis points through a cycle above investment-grade corporates. I mean, I'd say that's, generically speaking, what we've observed. And something like that is triple ACLOs. I think in today's environment, if you're looking at where spreads are, you're looking at kind of your tail risks. I think triple ACLOs are a great investment for folks looking to augment those parts of those portfolios. Now, if you are more open to less liquid investments, the question is, okay, so what else do I get? And the answer is, we think you pick up another 75 or 100 basis points beyond what you get in public securitizations. So adding those two numbers up, we think you're getting somewhere between 150 and 200 in investment grade ABF above what you would achieve in investment grade corporates, right? So it's a very meaningful pickup. We do think you're getting what I'd say quote unquote paid for not having as much liquidity. The interesting thing about ABF is that unlike corporate credit, where again, a traditional capital structure has make it up a five-year maturity, you pay interest every six months, and then in the 60th month or the fifth year, you have a principal repayment. If you have a five-year car loan, every month you're paying principal and interest. So the structure of the cash flows is actually quite different. So while it is private and there is really little to no active trading, there is natural liquidity coming off the pools because we're receiving principal and interest monthly. So I think it's a pretty important feature. The other piece I would say is on top of just the spread pick up. Again, 75 or 100 over-securitized and 150 to 200 over-investment grade is today, as a private lender, we're also able to achieve really attractive debt covenants in our deals, right? So it's not just spread. And I mentioned earlier, the folks coming in always either push spreads or terms. We're still achieving really attractive terms. And really what I'm talking about is in events of unexpected economic outcomes, there are ways of creating loss mitigating triggers where we can capture some extra protection that you structure into a private deal that you would not see in a public securitization. So I'd say it's spread and terms yet again. It's a good prompt for something that I think I always try to make sense of. And I'm sure you could ask quite frequently, is it an index strategy or an absolute strategy? And relatedly, how do I compare manager experience given the very unique nature of some of these portfolios and vehicles? The short answer is it's tough. So I think on the investment-grade side, many folks will think about this as a solution largely, not solely, but largely in the intermediate part of the curve. So call it three to five years, right? We just talked about auto loans. That's naturally a five-year asset. So the assets that we're seeing are generally short, that kind of goes hand-in-hand candidly with, if the idea is that the banking system is financing less of this, the banking system generally doesn't make 30-year loans. So it's generally short or intermediate duration. So many folks look at, call it something like a three to five-year corporate index as a proxy for just trying to think about what the return should look like. Now, it's important to remember these are private markets. So the way that many folks think of it is really in the context of acquisition spreads. So if I can originate a ABF opportunity, how much more am I getting paid above and beyond what this short intermediate corporate index is affording investors today? The public credit markets are going to move up and down. So I think it's one of these things where the private markets are not going to behave that way. So you do have to look at it through a longer time horizon. Similar in high yield, we see folks think about it as what is the comparable return I'd earn on a bank loan portfolio or even a private credit direct lending portfolio. And generally there, we've seen at least, is folks are really thinking about this over cash. So if longer term public bank loans are somewhere around $3 or $3.50, and private credit picks up another $200-ish on core middle market or upper middle market, you're around $550, $600, maybe even $650 if you go into smaller companies on private credit. The high yield ABF mandates are generally looking to target somewhere around $400 to $600 as well. So again, it's all kind of based on cash as you go down the capital structure. You talked about some of the ABF sectors as being shorter intermediate in nature. I would add that many of those sectors finance themselves with the shorter end of the curve and the floating rates that obviously requires frequent rebalancing or frequent asset replacement, which leads me curious, creates some uncertainty around the ex-ante return experience. How do you think through that as a manager investor? I think, again, it goes back to what's the benchmark, what are folks expecting? I would say some of the short assets, although it is short, Brian, just kind of sticking with the same example we had, like not alone, there's going to be fixed rate. So although it's maybe two or three years on average, you're really looking at fixed rate cash flows. But to answer your question, and I think it's one of the things where we think a lot about as we're doing the origination, we look to give ourselves some degree of certainty on those spreads or those cash flows vis-a-vis call protection or make holes to the extent that there's a refinancing option. But generally again, we're really thinking a lot about the embedded options. Ex-ante, we've seen returns. The key part here is if you're looking at it over a comparable public investment grade corporate, you're really trying to think about, okay, what's the tenor of each investment? And assuming both pay you back, did I earn my spread over that period of time? And that's going to come from two factors, as you suggest. One is credit. Again, we feel really comfortable with. And the other one is some embedded optionality, which again, we're trying to minimize through the structure. We've talked a lot about growth in the asset class, broadening of market participants. But it's also true that we've been in quite a fertile economic environment. The consumer has been pretty good shape overall. So weakness, obviously, at the lower end consumer. But holistically, it's been a really good backdrop for credit generally. One of the pushbacks I hear around AVF is, well, the asset class is so new, it's never really been tested. Edwin, what's your perspective on the asset class having not been tested? Yeah, I would say in short, maybe going back to Bell Bottoms, this is an asset class that has really been around for a really long time. Funding the real economy has occurred through banks and securitization in the past. So things like auto loans, consumer loans, student loans are just examples of some assets that have resided in our markets for quite a bit. So I'd say in short, Brian, while the label is new and the asset class itself is rich in history of data and our team has access to decades worth of data around consumer mortgages and a lot of other asset classes. So we feel really comfortable with our ability to underwrite through a cycle as we have seen these cycles before and across a lot of these assets. Edwin, we've covered quite a bit of ground. Maybe to conclude, we'll go back to the future. And we spent a lot of time talking about evolutions in the asset class, the investor base, participants, and just broad-based growth. When you look at over the next decade, what do you think the asset class is likely to look like? My sense is the asset class will continue to, for lack of better terms, grow. Although it's funny to say it's growing because we're already kind of saying it's in the trillions of dollars, but I would say it's just more widely adopted. It becomes part of the toolkit for investors to allocate, I think, similar to what we've seen in the last, call it, decade or two in most all private credit, which is really corporate lending, be more part of fixed income allocations. I think ABF and candidly securitized overall will play a bigger part in portfolios as there are clear benefits around just not relative value, but diversification. So, I think it's just continued implementation, adoption in both public and private markets. I think that's really well said. Edwin, thank you so much for your thoughts and perspective. You are interested in learning more about ABF or credit markets in transition. Please check out our website, pgimfixedincome.com for a series of videos, blogs and white papers. Till next time, thanks for listening to All the Credit. We hope you enjoyed today's podcast. Subscribe to keep up with the latest episodes of All the Credit. For more insights and thought leadership, visit pgimfixedincome.com. This podcast is intended solely for professional investor use. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. All investments involve risk, including the loss of capital. This material is not for distribution to any recipient located in any jurisdiction where such distribution is unlawful. This podcast includes the views and opinions of the authors, and may not reflect PGIMFixedIncome's views. PGIM and its related entities may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the views expressed herein. This podcast should not be reproduced without PGIM's prior written consent. No liability is accepted for any direct, indirect, or consequential laws that may arise from the use of any information contained in or derived from this podcast. PGIMFixedIncome is not acting as your fiduciary. The contents are for informational purposes only, are based on information available when created, and are subject to change. It is not intended as investment, legal, or tax advice, and does not consider a recipient's financial objectives. PGIMFixedIncome is a business unit of PGIM, the global asset management business of Prudential Financial Inc., which is not affiliated in any manner with Prudential PLC, incorporated in the United Kingdom, or with Prudential Assurance Company, a subsidiary of M&G PLC, incorporated in the United Kingdom. Copyright 2025, the PGIM logos and the rock symbol are service marks of PGIM and its related entities registered in many jurisdictions worldwide.