You're listening to All the Credit, a monthly podcast series brought to you by PGIM Fixed Income, an active global fixed income investment manager. Hey, everyone, this is Tom Porcelli, Chief EOS Economist at PGIM Fixed Income. Thank you for joining another episode of All the Credit. I'm happy to have Shikeb Farooqui with me. Shikeb is our lead EM Asia economist. He joined us relatively recently. It's been an absolute fantastic addition to the team. So, Shikeb, thanks for spending a little bit of time with us here today. Hey, Tom, thanks for having me and happy new year. There's a fair bit going on in China and lots to talk about, so I'm really looking forward to our conversation today. Yeah, and Shikeb, the thing that I always worry about when there's a lot to talk about is that in so many ways, we're going to be scratching the surface, which I think our regular listeners appreciate. But what I like to say is this then is just an opportunity for people to ping us if they have any questions or follow ups. And Shikeb is more than happy to have any additional conversations. But you're right, there's a lot to get into here. I think our regular listeners know that we take a probabilistic approach to forecasting. So we create plausible scenarios for the coming 12 months. And then we assign a probability to each of those scenarios. In the US, we expect continued economic expansion over the forecast horizon with fat towels, which is something we've been flagging basically for the better part of the last year. And so Shikeb, I think a good starting point is to walk through some of your scenarios as it relates to China in the coming year. So we'll keep it high level and then we'll sort of drill in as necessary. I will say, yes, we will definitely get into tariffs and China reaction function. I think it's probably worth starting at the beginning. So Shikeb, give us what you're thinking over the next 12 months. Yeah, sure. Sounds good, Tom. So let me start with a broad-based rundown of how we see 2025 shaping up for China. Obviously tariffs and the response to the tariffs is going to be a big theme within that. But before we get into that, I think maybe let's just sort of lay the ground on where China is. So I think it's clear that China needs to address its demand and financial and fiscal imbalances this year, which are structural in nature. And they go to the core of China's local government and SOE-led growth model. They need to raise private sector confidence and they need to allow the property sector to heal. Without this, China, I think, will only entrench itself in a deflationary balance sheet recession liquidity trap. Now, in terms of what you were saying, so when we think about sort of the five scenarios that can potentially play out in the baseline, we are thinking of China returning low growth in the low fours. People who follow China closely will appreciate that, you know, China anchors itself to a growth target. And although potential growth in China has been slowing over the years, there is a reluctance from Beijing to drop the 5% growth target. So the language around that has been changing over the years, and 2024 was around 5%. There are rumors that they're going to keep this target. Now, we think that a more realistic target in the current economic environment is one of around 4.5%. And to signal the difficulties in achieving that 4.5% and the downside risks to it, in the baseline, we expect China to potentially return around 4.2% in the baseline. Now, how do we think about the baseline? So at this point, we've got to bring in the US and what the US is going to do on the tariff front. Let me just interrupt you for a quick sec. So our baseline is for continued expansion, and what percentage probability do we assign to that? Yeah, so Tom, we're basically characterizing the baseline as a soft landing in the context of China, and we're assigning a 65% probability to that. And the way we think about the economic environment that China will face in that soft landing is that from the US side, without going into sort of details about the quantum of tariffs that come through, we think of the US continuing to pursue what we call a de-risking plus strategy. So the way that we've characterized the US policy towards China is you're in three worlds. You're either de-risking or you're decoupling, or you're looking for a trade deal. So in the soft landing, we'll be in a de-risking plus environment. The other scenarios that we've got are stagflation, which in our minds is one of the least likely environments. We are assigning a 5% probability to that. Stagnation, slightly higher probability at 10%. And then we've got a nominal GDP boom scenario, where we think of that as China pursuing a nominal GDP target. At this stage, we're only assigning a 5% probability to that. And then we've got the roaring 20s, in which we expect China to kind of pen a deal with the US, fix some of its local government funding constraints and start crowding in the private sector. And we're assigning a 15% probability to that. But going back to the soft landing, basically, what we're looking for is that China stays the course on industrial policy. It gradually eases off excess capacity and responds with calibrated demand-side stimulus measures. And within that, we think stepping up support to the consumers, property sector and infrastructure to offset the demand shock that comes from the US. We think that China in this scenario ends up injecting a net fiscal impulse of at least 2%, but as I mentioned earlier, is tolerant to a lower growth target of around 4.5%. How does that 2% compare to market expectations now? Market expectations have been moving quite rapidly. I would say that initially when we started thinking about this, we were probably on the more expansionary side with our 2% forecast. The market was closer to a net injection of 1% of fiscal impulse, but now the market is moving towards 2%. So that's priced in then, at this point? Yeah, so it's priced in in the sense that it's within the expectations of professional forecasters. It's difficult to say if it's priced in to the rates and effects market, because there's other factors that will determine pricing in those markets, right? But it is becoming more of a consensus take. Now, obviously, it will depend on the exact magnitude and the modalities of the tariffs as they come through. So, for us, the 2% is a starting point which we think that the Chinese will need to and will ramp up if the severity of the tariffs is much larger or more biting in actuality. One of the things that you mentioned earlier that I think we should come back to is this idea that you need to raise private sector confidence and you need the property sector to heal. So, within the context of what you just mentioned, how do they address that? Yeah, so, in a nutshell, I think the property sector needs quasi-fiscal support at this stage. When you have housing crisis of the nature, I mean, this is self-induced to an extent, right? So, back in 2018-19, Beijing identified the property sector as a source of macro imbalances that it wanted to address, and it started addressing those with heavy regulatory clampdown. And so, it's been a few years in the making, we're three or four years in. It's had a massive effect on consumer confidence onshore. It's been a store of wealth for Chinese household, given how repressed other financial markets in China are. So, because they're not allowing a proper pricing signal to go through. Now, if you look at sort of the housing market crisis in other economies, like Japan or the US or Spain, it takes at least five or six years to clear, and that's when you have proper pricing signals working their way through, right? And in China, you've not allowed that to happen. So at this point, the only way that you can provide a sort of a credible flaw to what is happening is to provide government sector support. And then as the property sector overhang starts to clear, then you get a situation where hopefully that starts feeding into better consumer confidence, at least, if not sort of private sector confidence. And in China, private government sector support for that sector means encouraging lending. So yeah, what they've been trying to do is to whitelist property developers that you can, and then the other side of that is developers that you can't lend to. But the messaging on that hasn't been very clear. So we've just ended up in this situation where there's no lending to the property sector going on at the moment. But then when property developers are unable to deliver on new starts, then there's the other side of this, which is that people who have put down payments, they're not getting delivery on those properties. They don't want to pay. They don't want to chuck good money after potentially what could be a non-deliverable asset. So the only way that you can resolve that is for the government to provide lending and to provide money to finalize those existing projects and start buying up excess capacity within the system. Correct me if I'm wrong, but prices are down like 30% from the peak or something along those lines, if I'm not mistaken. So the thought process then is, okay, fix or try to fix or try to shore up this one sector, which probably represents for most people their biggest asset. And then that feeds into this idea of stabilizing confidence at the consumer level. Again, have sympathy for that general flow through. But I guess the bigger question then is, but how long does that take? I mean, that's not something a year in the making. As you rightly highlighted, I mean, it could take years as it did in the United States. So when I think about your soft landing scenario that's 65%, I would think that almost none of that healing, right, related to housing and the feed-through into the consumer is embedded in that idea. I mean, this sounds like something maybe for the next two or three years out or even beyond. I think it is going to be a multi-year process. But I think we're in an environment where we are two or three years into this already. And as you mentioned, house prices, where they've been allowed to adjust. So a lot of the pricing adjustment that we've seen is in secondary homes, not in primary new starts. So if they allow some adjustment to come through on the primary new starts, if they allow some clearing to happen via local government or central government support, then you can still some confidence. But there's estimates out there that this overhang in terms of housing capacity is two or three years worth of excess capacity. So you can't take that out in a year. But what we basically need is, what we've been seeing over the past couple of years, a sustained declines in the property sector sales. And that needs to calm down a bit. So we may not go to positive sales or new investment in property, but as long as there's a bit of a clear up in that process where local governments are able to then sell new land and they're not fully reliant on the proceeds, property developers are somewhat made whole, or they can make local governments whole, then I think that's a better environment. So fair to say then that, and we'll leave Towers Off to the side and we'll get to that in a second, but is it fair to say that just from a fundamental economic perspective that this is, if not the single biggest challenge in China, certainly one of them? Yeah, so on the domestic side, this is the biggest challenge and the feed through into local government finances and the debt overhang on the local government side is the other big challenge. So the main issue with China's growth model, aside from it in the past being very export oriented and dependent on SOEs, on the domestic side, you just don't have the right fiscal transfer mechanism set up and therefore local governments have overly relied in the past on borrowing and then spending on infrastructure and on the property sector. So without clearing up the overhang in the property sector, basically everything's come to a standstill. You've put the brakes on the economy because effectively we're in a liquidity trap right now, because any money and of any new liquidity that's being generated by the PBOC, it's going to evergreen existing projects and bad loans, etc. So you need to move away from that. And the only way that you can really do that is to address the property sector. Everything you've said thus far really just drives home that they're going to be spending a lot. I mean, you cannot do this without what sounds like a pretty big fiscal impulse. How do they support that? How are they able to finance this? To me, in the United States, we're dealing with this challenge right now. The Trump administration obviously has some big plans, or at least stated big plans. But they're already starting to see some pushback from fiscal conservatives in DC. What is the setup for that in China? So the way that they've been dealing with this in the past, and I think they'll continue to follow the same model, is liquidity provisioning from the PBOC, either directly or indirectly. So, indirectly, reserve ratios in China are super high relative to developed markets. So if you look at reserve requirements within the banking system in China, the top six banks, they have to park 7% or 8% of their deposits in terms of reserve requirements. Now, obviously, you can speak to this better than I can, Tom, but in the US or in Europe, those reserve requirements are close to zero at this stage, right? So the question is, in the current setup, do banks really need to be putting aside so much money as sort of precautionary safeguards? And in the case of China, for every 50 basis points of reserve requirement cuts, you end up releasing roughly around 1 trillion renminbi worth of liquidity into the system. So that's one way that they've been going about it. And then I think the Chinese would never want to do QE in the sense of calling it QE, but what we are seeing is that the PBOC has been over the years injecting liquidity. So it takes on, it's effectively the balance sheet. The PBOC's own balance sheet has been expanding and it needs to continue to expand. Now, because of the way that the fiscal is set up in China, most of the fiscal spend has happened through local governments and they've done all of the borrowing. And some of this has been off balance sheet, and that's why we've got the debt overhang in local government financing vehicles. So the central government balance sheet itself doesn't look that bad relative to DM balance sheets. So what they can do, and this is where the focus is, that they can basically take on more on the central government balance sheet. But ultimately, they will need liquidity support from the PBOC, either directly from the PBOC or indirectly through the release of liquidity from the banking system. And of course, that support from the PBOC, that's not in question. No. So this is the thing with the PBOC. They're never explicit about it in the sense of they're not going to come out like Mario Draghi did, for example. They're not going to come out like the Fed did and say, we are pursuing QE. But actually, in their actions, they are doing quote unquote Chinese QE. All right, we need to jump into the tariff conversation. I had a dinner with a few economists the other night. It was a great discussion around what we think going to happen in the United States as it relates to tariffs. And I think the consensus is, it's really hard to know with any level of detail what is going to happen. In fact, I think we were all in agreement that Trump doesn't know the details of what tariffs are going to look like. So it's still an open question. Recently, an article that came out was in the Washington Post said tariffs are going to be very targeted. And then Trump came out and said, it's not going to be that way. I think all we saw in that was the sausage making process displayed for us in the Washington Post. I think it's an open question of what it's going to look like. Our own view is tariffs are going to happen. It's just the degree to which they happen now. So let's just assume that you do see tariffs on China, which again, I think I'm hardly going out on a limb by saying that. But what do you think the reaction function is? Do they come back harder relative to what might get put on them from the US? Or is it an opportunity for she to almost present himself as the grown up in the room relative to Trump and say, well, let's take this in sort of an orally fashion and let's have more discussion around it? I can see this going in an assortment of different directions, but give us your sense for how this might go. I completely agree. I think in 2018-19 during the first round of tariffs on the Trump one, that is exactly how she decided to portray himself in China. In terms of the responses that we saw back then, they were highly measured, proportionate, in a sense reactive. He always wanted Trump to make the first move. And I think we're going to see a similar setup this time round. Now, as you mentioned, we're all trying to read the tea leaves here, right, in terms of will they, won't they, symmetric, asymmetric, how severe? But I think it's fair to assume that we will see tariffs against China. The current makeup, as we know, of the incoming administration suggests as much. So when I think about how the Chinese see this, I think there is an element from Trump of keeping everyone second guessing by design, which works to his advantage. On the Chinese side, I think what we're seeing is a two-pronged foreign policy strategy, which is they're laying down red lines whilst indicating willingness to carve out deals to avoid tariffs. We've seen in the past that Trump is willing to carve out deals as well. And that's why, going back to those scenarios, so in the baseline, 65% probability is on a soft landing. But then when we think about the tails splitting out 35%, we're putting on the margin a higher probability on us carving out a deal rather than moving into the decoupling world. And then to your point about she being the grown up in the room, I think, safeguard for him against all of this and against the potential new Cold War front, in a sense, is to build momentum behind the Global South alternative and to show the world that he is the grown up in the room and China will follow the rules-based order and be more predictable than Trump. You know, as an interesting aside, you will have seen Indonesia's decision to join the BRICS, right? So I wouldn't say they're gaining a lot of momentum because there's still a lot of internal issues in that Global South construct, but that's the way that he's pushing it, right? And then the other thing to look at at this current juncture is how Ging is dealing with Europe's tariffs. So Europe conducted sort of an anti-subsidy investigation into China's behavior in the auto sector. And the Chinese are now looking to strike a deal. The Biden administration and Canada came straight ahead and said, we're going to slap 100% tariffs on China's EV exports. Europe followed due process and talked about putting on a lower tariff. But the Chinese have come in and said, look, we can agree on a deal where we regulate the quantum and the pricing of our exports into Europe to avoid Europe putting on tariffs against this, right? And additionally, what they've done is in some of the overcapacity sectors, such as chemicals, et cetera, they're stepping down the subsidies that they're placing, the exports, rebates and subsidies that they give, they're curtailing those. So it's not a full unwind of the subsidies, but they're reducing the amount. So there is an element of that that's playing out. And then in terms of what we're seeing from the Chinese right now is so it steps in that direction in terms of foreign policy. And then on the domestic policy front, the safeguard is that they will be implementing what they call countercyclical fiscal policy that will help to offset the gross drag from the tariffs as in when they come in. And then the other big question is what are they going to do with the effects? Are they going to allow the currency to depreciate? Are they going to weaponize the currency? So on that front, if we go back to 2018-19, it's telling because PBOC back then was reluctant to allow anticipatory moves in the currency, but ultimately it did allow the currency to proportionately adjust when concrete tariff measures came through. So what we've seen from official communication from the PBOC, that it wants to keep a lid on currency adjustment for now. And having learned its lesson from 2015, we think that a step deval is unlikely. They still have a preference for stability. And we think that currency weaponization is likely a last resort. Over time, they will allow the currency to adjust as the tariffs come in, but in an orderly way. On that, actually, an interesting point is if you look at the FX options market, you'll see that currently the bulk of the probability masses for tariffs to kick in in early spring and the currency to adjust to 7.5, but not beyond. And a lot of this market pricing is reminiscent of the 2018-19 playbook. And you agree with that, right? You agree with that timing? I think it's a fair assumption to see something come through around then. Although I guess recently all this focus on Canada, Greenland, all of that stuff. I don't know. Has that put China on the back burner? I don't know, but obviously we're keeping an eye on it. But one thing I would add, as much as we expect phased in adjustment on the currency, the adjustment may actually need to be larger this time around. If we were to stick with Trump and China, I think a fair question is, where does the relationship with Taiwan sit? Do you see that becoming an escalatory issue over the coming four years? Or do you think it could actually remain status quo? When you think about the geopolitical challenges, it's always part of the scenarios, right? Taiwan. What do you think happens over the coming four years? It's actually quite telling. So President Xi does this annual New Year's Day address. And there's a lot of focus on it this year for multiple reasons. One to get a sense of where he is in terms of the growth outlook, the stimulus outlook. But also people were looking at it to see what he would say about Taiwan. Because if you kind of go through existing predictions, Beijing and Xi have made clear that at some point, they do want to subsume Taiwan. And so the question is when and how. And for a lot of political experts, that timeline starts in 2025. This is quite a wide timeline, though, because some predict that it needs to be before 2037, but it can start starting this year. But if you look at the New Year's Day address, there's no new hints from Xi on what the plans are on this front. And similarly, if you look at the communication that's coming out of Taiwan, again, Taiwan's standing its ground, but there wasn't any new information, per se. So I think both sides are taking a step back and waiting to see how this evolves under Trump. The one thing that we are seeing, though, is over the holiday period, we saw a step up in Chinese military exercises over the Taiwan Strait. And this is quite indicative that China is effectively testing, and it will ramp up these tests, testing its capabilities for a soft takeover that keeps it below the threshold effectively of international rules of engagement rather than an outright invasion, which would make it easier for Washington and allies to come to Taiwan's aid. And these military exercises, they are another indication of China testing its ability to encircle Taiwan effectively via maritime blockades. They're playing around with advanced cyber warfare. So you effectively cut Taiwan off from seaborne trade and don't really give it any option but to concede in a sense. And that's where the focus has been so far from the Chinese side now with respect to Trump. Again, this is interesting because you can cut it both ways. All of these headlines around Greenland, the Panama Canal, all of this stuff. If there is really some substance to this and this is a direction that the US wants to move in, then China will want to move to take over Taiwan in some capacity. I think the way you phrased it is quite right. I mean, who knows if this is really the direction that the United States wants to go. But I do think that whether policy makers in DC realize it or not, these kind of conversations that they're having out in the open will make the rest of the world wonder the same thing. Well, who am I supposed to be looking at from an expansionary perspective? It lends itself to too many troubling conversations that could be happening from a geopolitical perspective. But again, you're quite right. We'll see how the year unfolds. Let me ask you one last question. It is something I think worth exploring a little bit, social instability. I was sent a chart recently from the China Dissent Monitor, and it shows the number of incidents of social unrest. If you look at the most recent click, it's up significantly. Whether you want to look at it from 24 or 22, either way, incidents are up. I immediately think, well, maybe this has something to do with high youth unemployment. I know that the government's not even reporting that number anymore. I heard from another China economist that the number is still near 50 percent. Where is this coming from? And this unrest, is it something new? Has it been simmering for so many years? Give us your take on that. When they stopped reporting youth unemployment, if memory serves me right, that number was around 20 percent, and it is completely conceivable that that number has deteriorated even further. Now, I think that's a big component. But then there's other things. The way that they handled COVID, the way that they're handling the property sector, so there's a lot of disillusion. But I think Beijing understands this. And to that end, what we're starting to see is social support programs. So one thing that was in the news a couple of weeks ago was China will be ramping up support for graduate transition programs, in a sense. So people coming out of university struggling to find jobs, they're looking to build in support programs for them. So yeah, it is an issue. And I think when you look at that chart, you want to trace it back to COVID. From that period on, we are seeing a noticeable uptick in these incidents, in as much as Beijing would like these not to be reported in a sense. But yeah, it is an issue. But the main reasons why are youth unemployment, there's just a skills mismatch in China at the moment. Private sector confidence, private sector investment, it's just not taking off. And so job creation is a big issue. Well, Shikeb, this was great. I loved all of this. This conversation was absolutely fantastic. I fear for you that we're going to have to do this again, because I think that between the US and China, we're both going to be very, very busy this year. And so it'll be great to catch up with you in the next handful of months. Yeah, thanks, Tom. This has been a great exchange. Loved every minute of it. Before I go, I just want to wish everyone a Happy Lunar New Year. So Happy New Year, Xin yan kuai lei, and wishing everyone luck and prosperity. Gong xi fa tse. Thank you. Great way to end this. Thank you to the audience for listening. I'm totally appreciated as always, and look out for new episodes to come. We hope you enjoyed today's podcast. Subscribe to keep up with the latest episodes of All the Credit. For more insights and thought leadership, visit pgimfixincome.com. This podcast is intended solely for professional investor use. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. All investments involve risk, including the loss of capital. This material is not for distribution to any recipient located in any jurisdiction where such distribution is unlawful. This podcast includes the views and opinions of the authors and may not reflect PGIM Fixed Income's views. PGIM and its related entities may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the views expressed herein. This podcast should not be reproduced without PGIM's prior written consent. No liability is accepted for any direct, indirect, or consequential loss that may arise from the use of any information contained in or derived from this podcast. PGIM Fixed Income is not acting as your fiduciary. The contents are for informational purposes only, are based on information available when created, and are subject to change. It is not intended as investment, legal, or tax advice, and does not consider a recipient's financial objectives. PGIM Fixed Income is a business unit of PGIM, the global asset management business of Prudential Financial Inc., which is not affiliated in any manner with Prudential PLC, incorporated in the United Kingdom, or with Prudential Assurance Company, a subsidiary of MNG PLC, incorporated in the United Kingdom. Copyright 2025. The PGIM logos and the rock symbol are service marks of PGIM and its related entities registered in many jurisdictions worldwide.