Hello, this is Dara O Briain, but this is not an episode of Curious Cases. Instead, I want to tell you about a new show we're doing called What? Seriously? Which is very much the other end of the seriousness spectrum, in which myself and my good comedy friend Isy Suttie invite in quite impressive guests, and they tell us strange but true tales, and we basically talk all over them. A lot of nonsense ensues, but it's good fun, and here's a taster. From BBC Radio 4, this is What? Seriously? I'm Dara O Briain. And I'm Isy Suttie. And in our new series, we're bringing you short stories and tall tales. What? Seriously? It's packed with real life strange but true stories that make you go, What? Seriously? And provide you with excellent social ammo to invest your friends. The twist is we don't know how each story unfolds, and we'll have to figure it out one fragment at a time with our special guests who each have a mysterious connection to the tale. That's right. I am your spy expert. So this is actually the story of how humans learned to survive in space. This is taking an epic turn though, hasn't it? You didn't expect that, did you? I did not expect that. I'm delighted with it though. Across the series, we'll be joined by I'm a celeb winner, Georgia Toffalo. I went to Glyndebourne on a one hit wonder date, and I got teetiddled halfway through Wagner, and I can't remember the second half. Aussie comedian, Rhys Nicholson. We have ibises, which we call bin chickens in Australia. They're the hauntingest bird you've ever seen in your life. Why are they called that? They are these terrifying looking birds that have cold dead eyes. They're just these like long legged stalked things and they arc up and they're flightless. Because their beaks are a foot long. They've evolved to do something incredible with nectar and a plant that no longer exists and something to sup from. It's a tool for something like that. Billions of years of evolution have shaped this thing. And now they're at a bin. Yeah, they're trying to get like a cigarette butt out of like a Coke can or something. And they're uniquely built for this now. Nature finds a way. Broadcasters Stuart McConey. We're talking Jules Feuds. Feuds is a good newspaper word isn't it? It's just occurred to me. It's like quiz, you know, when police quiz someone over a murder. Yes, or romp, people always romp. I also think it's funny when someone's kind of been taking him for questioning about a murder and the police say, what's the capital of Peru? Because you'll break if you get into the spin of answering questions. If you go Lima, Vienna, the accords of the Treaty of Versailles. And then you go, my mother, oh no. Miles from The Traitors. Wow. You're welcome. She'll come up with all the stuff you have. I know, right? It's like I'm reading from a sheet or something, but no I haven't. Master Chef, Louisa Ellis. I know a lot about food. I'm a chef and I live in Nottingham. So as long as we've got a Nottingham and food based store. There's some clues there. Oh really? You don't know what's going on, do you? Okay, fine. Yeah. I mean, the food thing I've got covered, a food thing I can pretty much, you know, any blind spots in the food? Put it in your mouth. Yeah. Chew it. Broad. Okay, so the consumption of food we've mastered over the last whatever number of years. Comedian Richard Herring. No one's ever asked me to do a documentary on fish, which I'm annoyed about because my surname is a fish. I'm the perfect. Oh, my God. I was once asked to do a Channel 5 show about fishing, which I turned down because I'd never been fishing. I've never done the history of fish. No, I could do one about chimney sweeping. Yeah. Oh, no. Or about Suttie. Suttie. Oh, about Suttie's sweep. How? Yeah. Oh, yes, of course. Yeah. Not even a sweep. Just Suttie. Suttie is a silent one, isn't it? Or sweep the one that goes honk, honk. Suttie is silent. Sweep goes shh, shh, shh. And Sue goes, hello, I'm Sue. Yeah, yeah. But I will still be overshadowed by the two men in this car. Ha ha ha ha. Astronaut Helen Sharman. All these engineers on the ground trying desperately to reduce the amount of dust in space. And you get Izzy taking up a balloon full of glycerine. It was, sorry, it was my 50th. And I deserve a party. Slow horses star Chris Chong. I would probably be the worst spy ever. When we got cast in the show on the MI5 website, you can go on it and watch a little video to see if you'd be suited to being part of the service. And it plays you like a video of a streetscape. And then it will ask you questions about what you've observed. And it's like, how many black cars did you see? How many people wearing hats? What time did the person cross the road? Not one. I didn't get one right. Not one right. Join us for What Seriously? From BBC Radio 4 on BBC Sounds.