All right, friends, if you were sick of hearing me drone on about Sumus all season one, then my apologies in advance for what's to follow with our season two sponsor. As most people who know me have already heard ad nauseum, I'm completely obsessed with this company because it has fundamentally changed daily life for me. Actually, it's changed my nightly life. That's right, I'm talking about EightSleep. Now, I've been an amateur biohacker for decades. My parents say it began around age 10 when I was psychologically crushed by a bad report card from our pediatrician that resulted in me being given the name Mr. Cholesterol by my family. Anyway, since then, I've focused on nutrition, exercise, sauna, cold plunge, and lots of other stuff. But over time, I've come to the point of view that sleep is perhaps the most important variable in the equation for my health. For most of my life, it's also been the most elusive. Whether it's getting the monkey brain to turn off to go to sleep or staying asleep, with in my case, three young kids who it often feels like their sole objective when the sun goes down is to wake us up as many times as possible. A couple of years ago, I started to notice a bunch of people I respect jump on the EightSleep train. Doctors like Peter Atiyah and Andrew Huberman, CEOs like Mark Zuckerberg, and athletes like this year's US Open tennis finalist, Taylor Fritz. So I decided to text three of my friends, Patrick O'Shaughnessy, David Senra, and Brent B. Shore, who I knew were all using EightSleep, and I sent them the same text. It read, is this really legit? Seems too good to be true. They all responded about identically. Get it, you won't regret it. It didn't take long for me to experience what they were talking about. Literally on my first night using EightSleep, I got a full hour more of deep sleep and my heart rate variability, one of the most important vital signs for recovery and overall health, literally almost doubled from the low 30s to the 60s. What's even better, all of this was measured not just by EightSleep, but independently by my aura ring, which I had been wearing for many years. It's now been over a year, and I'm telling you EightSleep has been a total game changer. And I didn't have to change a single other thing from a lifestyle standpoint. If my house is on fire, I'm grabbing my wife, I'm grabbing my three kids, and I'm grabbing my EightSleep. Probably but not necessarily in that order. If you're looking to improve your daily life and overall health, I would equate not giving EightSleep a try to insanity. Every serious executive, investor, athlete, and exhausted parent needs to be supporting their physical and cognitive recovery with this incredible technology. Am I a doctor? No. Am I qualified to give medical advice? Probably not. Am I crazy? Maybe. But I'm telling you, I'm right about this one. So check it out at eightsleep.com/joys. And when you do, you'll get $350 off the new Pod 4 Ultra. That's eightsleep.com/joys. Hello and welcome to The Joys of Compounding. We're still on the same mission, to study greatness in order to help you find and compound your life's work as fast as possible for as long as possible. I'm Paul Buser. And I'm Rick Berman. We're your hosts, and each session, our teachers will be some of the world's most compelling people from across the vast range of human achievement. This show is brought to you by Pine Grove Studios in collaboration with Colossus. The hosts of the show, Rick Berman and Paul Buser, are the co-founders and co-CEOs of Seda Grove Holdings and co-CEOs of Seda Grove Management Company. All opinions expressed by any of Rick, Paul or their podcast guests are solely their own and do not reflect the opinion of either Seda Grove Holdings or Seda Grove Management Company. This podcast is intended for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as the basis for investment decisions. Seda Grove Holdings or clients of Seda Grove Management Company may maintain positions and securities discussed in this podcast. Take your seats. Class is in session. Our teacher today may well be the greatest investor you've probably never heard of. Her name is Jacqueline Morby. And for anyone who invests in software or participates in the now nearly trillion-dollar global growth equity industry, chances are Jackie helped to shape and give rise to the professional world you inhabit. In 1978, at the age of 40, and with her only professional experience to date being a few years of substitute teaching, Jackie joined TA Associates, then the largest venture capital firm in the world. Within just a few years, she would revolutionize her industry, effectively originating the concept of cold calling profitable bootstrap technology companies not actively looking for funding. While the concept seems so simple, this truly was a radical innovation, in effect pioneering the art of looking for talented people in companies that don't necessarily want to be found, and it sparked a movement that created what we now know today as growth equity. As if that's not enough, Jackie was also one of the very first investors of any kind to recognize the inherent business quality of software companies. Over the next two decades, as software would begin to eat more and more of the world, Jackie would have a front row seat as one of the most important capital partners to the industry. This is Jackie's first podcast of any kind, and we feel so honored to bring this conversation to you, mainly because hers is a story that merits so much more attention. Preparing for this episode required additional support to make sure we properly understood the historical context surrounding Jackie's story, and so we are especially grateful to our friends Mary Miller of Norwest, Zoe Zhao of Aslan Software, Ollie Thomas of Expedition Growth, and the one and only Kevin G for helping us bring this conversation to a richer place than it would have otherwise been. With that, we hope you enjoy Class with the Queen of Software, Jackie Morby. I grew up in Marysville, California, which you've probably never heard of near Sacramento. My father was the president of the college there, and my mother had been a teacher. When I went to Stanford, she went back to teaching to be able to help pay for the tuition because it was very expensive for even my father who was president of the college, and my father had gone to Stanford too. I went to high school, Marysville High School, and it has a twin city called Yuba City, and there are a lot of farmers and so forth around there. I had no friends going to a major university. It was much more of a farming community. My friend's parents were farmers or ranchers or something. But of course, given my father's and mother's interests in my education, I was heading for something more than that. And so Marysville and Yuba City were sort of part of my original life. But interestingly, I have no contact with anybody from those places anymore, my high school friends, etc. I went on from there and it's not on purpose. It just worked out. Our lives were so different. I went to Stanford and at a wonderful time, I met my husband, Jeff Morby. Probably went on in the first month that I was there, although I didn't really start dating him until my junior year. And then we fell madly in love and we both were the same year and graduated and got married the week after we graduated. And he was on his way to Harvard Business School and I was going as the wife. Of course, moved to Boston and Cambridge and absolutely loved the whole experience. And I worked at the Cambridge Electron Accelerator, one of the first accelerators in an office type position, but dealing with a lot of technology at the time. It was exciting. That lasted two years. And then we moved to Los Angeles. He was a Hughes fellow and he went to work for Hughes Aircraft Company. And I started thinking about possibly teaching, which my parents were very much saying I should do that. And so I signed up at UCLA to become a teacher, which I did do some substitute teaching, but I never did really teach. And then we actually adopted both of our children. I adopted our son in Los Angeles. And then my husband took a job to run a finance company in Argentina. So we moved to Argentina. I had taken Spanish in high school or college, a little bit of Spanish. And we moved there and quickly learned Spanish or continued learning Spanish. And then adopted our daughter in Argentina. Because we were very lucky to be there, because at that time the birth control pills could come in and there were no babies in the United States to adopt. But in Argentina, the birth control pills hadn't arrived yet. So anyway, so we adopted our daughter, Michelle. And so then we had four of us. And you may remember Che Guevara, maybe not. Che Guevara came from Argentina. He was for the revolution and so forth. And so it became more and more dangerous as Americans to be in Argentina. We had guards, Jeff drove in an armored car. My husband, the children went to school with a guard. We had guards at the house because we were getting threats that we were gonna be killed or kidnapped or whatever. But nobody cared about me. I went on in my normal life. Nobody seemed to worry about women. They just worried about the children and my husband. But finally, after being there four years, one of the heads, and Jeff was running the Bank of Boston or Argentina. So he was the head guy. And then suddenly some of these kidnapers killed one of the heads of another American company instead of kidnapping him. And Jeff had always said, well, I can take a kidnapping. And so when they killed him, we said, we're out of here. This is not a place we want to stay. Within a couple of weeks, we left, came back to Boston and then a month later, he became the head of the bank in Brazil. So then we moved to Brazil. We were in Brazil a little over a year, learned Portuguese, just from Spanish to Portuguese, and then moved back to Cambridge. And when we came back, I said, I've had a very interesting life to date, but there's something more to do. And I'm thinking about we had household going to work. And that's when I went, I found out about, Jeff said, go to Harvard Business School. And I looked at Harvard Business School, and there maybe had been two women ever had gone there. And I said, I don't think I'm going to try to go to Harvard Business School. And I'm 30 something years old, and I'm, no. But then I heard about the Simmons Graduate Management School for Women, which was new, and the two founders had been at Harvard Business School. And so I went to Simmons Graduate Management School, and had a very interesting education for two years. And at the end, had to do an internship somewhere. I only knew about Venture Capital because of my husband. He could tell me about all this stuff. None of my classmates, when I went in to Venture Capital, had ever even heard of Venture Capital. But because of Jeff, he said, I almost thought about being a Venture Capitalist. Why don't you think about that? So I heard about a couple of firms, and one of them was an investment banking firm. And I remember I went in, it was Payne Webber. I went in to see the head of Payne Webber. We had a nice conversation, and he said to me, famous last word, he said, I have a wife and two children, and just like you, and there's no way she could carry on life here, our lives and our work. I just don't think you could do it. And I said, oh, okay. So I left, and the fellow, I had a neighbor who didn't introduce me to him. I came out and I said, it doesn't look like anything's going to work out here. Where should I work that would be a pathway to come back here? And there were two guys there and they both responded in unison, TA Associates. I said, TA Associates, what? Yeah, let me tell me about that. I found out the name of the head of TA, Peter Brook. He'd gone to Harvard Business School. Jeff had some contacts for me to be able to get introduced to Peter. And I go in and tell him about my life and my interest in venture capital and so forth. And it has an interesting life with all the terrorism and the threats we were getting in Argentina and all of my life prior. And this was for an internship now, not a job. And he said, you've had an interesting background. You might do well here. Okay, why don't you come and be an intern here? Around what year was that? What was TA like at that point? 1978? Yeah, it was 1978. Good, better than I. TA, I think they were investing their third fund, maybe. TA was maybe 10 people, not many. Peter was running it, and Kevin Landry was head of all of the investing. And there were actually two groups of people. They were the people who invested in technology, Biogen, those type of companies. And there was another group that only was interested in media and TV stations and radio stations and internet. Wasn't really internet yet, but that sort of thing. And this was a division, almost a competition between the technology side and the other side of the business. Maybe five years later, the other group broke off, but that was after. So I was just an intern at that point and got very involved in deals. And then it came time for me to graduate. And I went to Peter and said, I really love it here. I'm working, I'm being productive and so forth and so on. And I think my salary was 28,000 a year or something. Not much. It wasn't even 30,000, I don't think. But I said, okay. But I was lucky. I had a husband who was doing really well and making money. And I'd lived in South America, so I was used to having people help at home, taking care of my children and so forth. I had two children at that point. And so I started off in a fairly low-paying job. But most of my classmates, when I told them what I was going to be doing, they'd never even heard of venture capital. So it was so early. That's what stands out to me, Jackie, hearing you talk about what TA was like when you arrived. And of course, at the time, it was the largest venture capital firm in the world. It was maybe just a $100 million fund or so, but nobody knew this style of investing truly was a cottage industry. And just it's fascinating to put flesh on the bones of what that really actually looked like. It was a couple of handful of people focused in a couple of areas, all just really organic and figuring things out. We're going to come back to the early days at TA and pick up when you joined full time. But I do want to ask you just, I know you weren't a substitute teacher very long, but you came from a family of educators that combined with just the limited teaching experience that you had. I'm curious really how that background and also just the background living overseas early in your life. How do you think those two dynamics impacted the way you approached your work when you did ultimately? It's interesting. I'm not sure how the education part played into it. I laugh at one thing when I got there and was busy working and doing things, and I tell my parents, I'm going out to visit these companies and so forth and so on. My mother said, what do you do for lunch? I said, we often go out and get some lunch or bring it back or we go get something to eat. She said, who do you go with? I said, the rest of the guys. She said, you're going out with the men? There were no women except the secretaries. I said, yes. She said, that job sounds like a good job. I don't know how much my past life, but I'm sure by living in South America and having to learn and experience new experiences all the time and be on my own there, it helped in being fairly aggressive, isn't quite the word, but proactive in finding new deals and so forth. There was probably a crossover between figuring out life in foreign countries, Argentina and Brazil, and applying whatever those experiences were for me to addressing new companies. As we were hearing from so many of our friends in the investing and software world about you the last couple of years, it allowed us a chance to look at some of this history. We did come across an article from a little over a decade ago in the Pittsburgh quarter leagues. I know you spent some time in Pittsburgh with Jeff. It highlighted two incredibly compelling things about your background that I think now people take for granted at a minimum, and probably forget that there wasn't even a start to them. Then one of those is cold calling, and the other one is the idea of investing in software, which almost seems laughable today because it's such a huge part of the economy. In terms of cold calling, I just want to read a little bit of this excerpt because I think it sheds light on the context you were facing at that point, and why you even desire to invent this idea of cold calling in software investing. You said, when I joined TA Associates in Boston, I didn't know a lot about the investment business, but I was mature at least. Since I had just graduated from Simmons, I was the lowest on the totem pole and had to figure out things for myself. I knew that I would be judged by my ability to find interesting companies for the firm to invest in. The partners mostly used the Old Boys Network, essentially calling on guys they knew from college. I went through my husband's Harvard Business School contacts very quickly and realized there had to be another way. We were technology investors, so I started tearing through the technology magazines, looking at ads for interesting products. Back then, I would approach some of the partners and ask, do you know this company? When they didn't, I'd say, they're here in this magazine, they're right here in Boston, let's just call them. You go on to say that really, when you would call these entrepreneurs, you all knew the software space pretty well, but they had never been called on before. Time and time again, they took your call and they allowed you to meet with them. In a way, you circumvented this old boys' network. As Rick and I have thought about this, we love this idea of constraints, and you turned what was a big hindrance. There were, like you said, very few females in this industry, if any others, the senior nature at this point, and you didn't have that traditional network that you would just rely on. Instead, it forced you to think rationally, to look at what some of the best companies were, and even if they didn't need capital, or no one had a contact there, you just went and called them. I'm so curious, as you reflect on that, and think about those early days, you're in an investment firm, you need to actually make some investments, and the typical way people would drum up deals wasn't working for you, so how did you end up deciding to go down this path? Self-defense, and it worked. I had never heard of Dun & Bradstreet Reports before, but when I went through magazines and pulled out all these different ads or articles about software companies and other companies too, and I took them in to the people that were even a lot of Boston-based companies, I'd say to Kevin Landry, Peter Brook was never involved very much in this, but Kevin Landry, I said, here are this companies right here. Have we met them and look at this interesting new products and so forth? That's when they said, I got Dun & Bradstreet Reports. And then, but the funniest part is that I felt very shy about calling the Boston companies because I thought, this is going to be so embarrassing. I'm going to call and they'll say, I presented you as a startup and you turned me down. So then my husband had a trip to Texas. So I took all my Texas D&Bs with me and I was invited to go on this trip. And so he went off to his meetings and I sat in the hotel, made my first cold call to a Texas company. And I called and said, we're this well-known venture capital company. I've seen your product, blah, blah, blah. And I'd love to come and visit. And he said, Hannah, you just come right out. I ran out of the car and off I went. And I think I saw five companies in Dallas that two or three days that we were there. And it was just saying, this is not hard. This is easy. We ultimately taught our associates to, I taught them to call and I didn't have to do a lot of it anymore. We had people under me calling. I was just going to ask and we'll come back to Kevin. But do you remember what you actually taught them? Was it as straightforward as just discover these companies that are interesting and call them and say these couple of lines or? Make 50 calls a day and something good will come of it. Yeah, just what was the basis of the call? Of the call, yeah. What was the heart of a great cold call? I think telling them how great their product looks. That's something that we're investors and we've invested in such and such and such and such and such and companies, and you have very interesting position in whatever market it is and flattering them. Then saying, we'd like to come out and visit and tell you about what we do. We're offering money and they might say, we don't need money. We said, you probably don't, but maybe you will someday, maybe you want to make an acquisition, or maybe you want some liquidity, which was something that most people weren't doing, and that was something you could say, well, maybe buy 10 percent from you when you get your first $5 million, $10 million or whatever, and that was appealing to some of them. It was trying to find, maybe they may want to make an acquisition or try to find the sweet spot for them, and then they might say, we're just not interested, but maybe you want to meet for the future, maybe you'll be interested later. So have a reason to go out and visit, and 50 percent of the time, you get out and visit and you're not visited, you're not interested. I wasn't interested. I decide, no, these people aren't people we can back. I don't like this, but a lot of the times, people like Larry Ellison and I became great friends. We visited a lot of time, and just when I thought we were about to make the investment, Kevin said, we're not making this investment unless we make X interest per year on this. Larry said, no way, am I doing this? So there it went. We realized you were inventing the future of half of how all investing gets done. Jackie, that's the thing that strikes me so much, and why I'm trying to dig through your life before TA, because there was an impulse that you took, any self-defense, understandable response, but there was something in your DNA that said, I can't do it this way. First principles thinking, I'm just going to do it a different way. This idea that by calling companies that actually weren't looking for funding, you were not only developing your own pipeline, but you were uncovering a whole other set, a whole other phenotype of companies that were potentially very healthy, fast-growing, doing exciting things, but just weren't necessarily looking for capital, might have a good use for capital. Say more about some of those early visits with these. You want me to tell the ones that got away? But Microsoft, for example, I went up to Seattle and had a meeting with Bill Gates. He was two and a half hours to three hours late, so I sat around and waited for him to get there. But he came in completely flustered. He said, I've just had a terrible night. I got in at three o'clock in the morning last night and blah, blah, blah, blah, and on and on. I'm trying to figure out what this company does, and it was a crazy meeting. But obviously, I was interested. The next step was to bring back Kevin Landry, the head of the investing at TA. Maybe a month later, I tried to bring back Kevin and we get to that area, Seattle, and he gets a phone call about a deal he's been working on. They said, you can't go there, you have to go immediately to some place in California, because we're about to lose this other deal. So we canceled the Microsoft meeting, famous canceled meeting and could never get back in after that. Another venture capitalist can't remember his name, but anyhow, that was one of those, oh no, type of experiences. Do you remember the first big fish you got in the boat, which was the first deal you actually- That I closed? That you actually closed for tea. What it had been like, digital research or? Digital research, yeah. I guess that's a good one to mention, yes. Because if you were talking about Microsoft, you were also talking about digital research. And yes, I guess that would definitely be the one. And that was a sad, sad story. Gary Kildall, who was just as important to the early software as Bill Gates, and they were friends, they were both from Seattle. And Microsoft was mostly language, and digital research was operating systems. And digital research, Gary was using Bill Gates as beta test site for all his operating systems. But that wasn't what Bill Gates was doing. He was copying the technology. And Gary was very naive in thinking he was his friend. And so it got to be pretty messy there, and certainly hurt digital researchers' future because Bill was much more savvy in marketing and creating software just exactly like what digital research had, but plus also having the language, the basic language, and so forth, software as well. So it was a very difficult time. It's clear that you invented this idea of a cold call via necessity. Like Rick alluded to, you unearthed this idea of bootstrap software. Venture capital typically would be earlier stage, cash-burning companies, but there were all these companies out there that maybe needed growth capital, but they usually have been founded by someone on their own dime or made friends and family. Now we take it for granted. There's so many large firms, and TA and the folks who've started firms around it, and many others. But there's a third piece that you really shed a light on, and it's this idea of investing in software. There's actually just a couple of thoughts from that article that we mentioned earlier. I just wanted to read because again, we take this for granted today, but this thinking about you stepping into TA and doing growth investing, cold calling and convincing everyone that software was actually a compelling place to invest, it was like this trifecta, it's singular. And so you said also when I started my career, nobody was investing in software. In 1978, mainframe software was the only thing. In 1969, when IBM unbundled and separated their software from their hardware, many investors lost a lot of money because none of the mainframe companies really knew how to make packaged software products. They were producing software that had to be adjusted all the time, which wasn't economical. As a result, VCs stayed away from software for about a decade. Through the years, I served on approximately 30 company boards and 10 of them went public. But in the beginning, I visited many companies and one day came across a software outfit in Chicago that was run by a very unusual guy. He gave me his financials and they were fantastic. I thought, wow, this company makes 20 percent pre-tax and is growing 30 to 40 percent a year. That was pretty interesting. So I went back to TA and said to one of the partners, look at these financials. He said, these are incredible. What is this? I said, would you believe a software company? You talk about how this is just a revelation. These days, we think all the time about how software has the highest gross margins and beautiful recurring revenue and mission critical status. Back then, this was shocking that a software company could have compelling financials and a good business model. Can you just share some more memories about that? It was a complete revelation when I started visiting these companies, and I visited quite a few which were very interesting, but I couldn't do a deal there. Yes, once I began bringing back the financials, they became very interested in it. There was SSA company that we made an investment in and so forth. Yes, all of a sudden, everybody understood that software was a product, not just a technology, and you could make it a product. And that was a revolutionary idea. But it took a little while, and the Chicago company, this SSA we invested in was a hit right away. McCormick and Dodge invested along with Greylock together. I know Henry McCance is quoted a couple of times talking about how we made these investments together. He and I were going after software at the same time and had success there. It's nice when there's so little competition that there's more collaboration than competition. We found in the National Venture Capital Association's oral history, Henry participates, and he was asked about just about this in question, who was your competition in the early days in getting these great software companies? And immediately he says, TA Associates, Jackie Morby at TA was a very strong competitor. She and I worked on the board together of a couple of companies, McCormick and Dodge, Information Builders, another private company in New York City. So there were other firms that recognized the same pattern, but certainly Greylock and TA were two of the first. Then after a couple of these companies either went public or were acquired and that began to be reported, there was a lot of competition and followers and the news was out. This is the story of any discovery, right? There's the early movers and the innovators that reveal a certain truth to others and it's a compelling one. How did you get up the curve, just the technical curve? As you said, not really a lot of experience. You had your husband who had an engineering degree. Beyond that, was it difficult to really differentiate the sort of who had an edge, which software was actually had staying power, was built well, et cetera? I think the market would be telling you, I did invest a couple of times in software startups, which didn't turn out so well, meaning that they didn't grow and didn't succeed. But basically, you're going on the market and what is being sold and competitively succeeding. So I didn't have to evaluate the software very much. I could do that through references and reference calls and so forth, and who was buying the software and so forth along the way. I don't remember ever worrying about the fact that I was not a technology person, I was more of a market-driven person, I guess you'd call it, and that was not a problem. Certainly, you've mentioned it a couple of times, there was two types of software. The software that was made into a product and a package and could be sold over and over again. Then there was people who were just developing software to solve problems, specific problems and not something that was going to be able to be marketed over and over again. That was sometimes difficult because those people thought maybe they could do the marketing of their products, but which is really quite another skill and not the software skill. It was complicated because sometimes you would hear about a great company and you discover that they were just a company that didn't have a product, but was just developing solutions. Jackie, as I think back to my childhood, I have extremely fond memories of playing King's Quest on the computer. My four kids would laugh at that. They don't even remember what a computer looked like, but it was pretty amazing graphics in those days. I always remember hearing about Ken and Roberta Williams and educational component to Sierra Online Games. I'm just thinking about what you just said around, some people know how to design software, some people know how to sell. Sierra, as I just recall, but it's my eight-year-old self thinking about this, had both. It felt like there's a proliferation and they marketed well to me. They also were at the cutting edge in terms of design and building the software. Do you mind just sharing more about that story or kind of that mix that you saw? I'll tell you about that story. That's a funny story. I heard about Sierra and met Ken Williams. He was a character, very technology-oriented, and Roberta was just darling. She was a cute little thing and she was a lot of the common sense part of the package. I took the software home to my children. It was probably your age. I knew that the software would grade because I could see how my son could play with it and so forth and so on. They were called Sierra Online because they were up in the Sierras. To go there, I had to fly into, I can't remember, not Bakersfield, but it's anywhere somewhere and drive up into the mountains towards Yosemite to go to their office. But we made the investment. Then my first board meeting and they hardly knew what a board was. I was trying to help them get some time. I got there and I drove up an hour or something into the mountains, and I went to the office and there was nothing there. I looked and I thought, oh my gosh, they've just disappeared with all our money. It took me a couple of hours to find, they'd forgotten to tell me they moved to find them. They were interesting. They were a couple. She was the one who was providing a lot of the story and the dialogue and all of that. They were really a team. I always remember on the back of the box that you would buy, there was a picture of her and how many hundreds of thousands of the discs they had sold. Yeah, she would be telling the story, whatever it was on Camelot or something else. It does sound like the things that was so important to the long-term success of TA was that at least at that time, it really was a partnership, again, from the oral history of venture capital. This comes from Bond French, who had run Adams Street, the large private equity fund funds for a long time. I think he's still chairman of Adams. But he was asked, what made TA successful? Did they have a philosophy that was different than other firms? Bond says, back to your people question, a successful partnership, it doesn't matter whether it's a venture fund or a buyout fund, really starts with trust and respect among the senior partners. As simple as that sounds. So successful partnerships, and this is where Kevin was really central to TA's culture, and Andy McClain and Jackie Morby and numerous others, where they didn't necessarily have to be alike, and they didn't have to have gone to the same schools, and they didn't necessarily have to socialize with each other, but there was tremendous respect for each other's investment judgment. I'm curious how you would react to that, and also just maybe alongside that, what you learned from Kevin because presumably, he had his own style as an investor and as a leader. That's interesting because if you talk about the three of us, Andy, Kevin and me were absolutely completely different, completely different. And I guess what I learned from Kevin was to be very nurturing in a sense to the entrepreneur, but also be flattering and so forth while still making suggestions for change. And it's a very delicate balance that you have to play as, well, once you're an investor, of doing what needs to be done to make the company more successful and making those suggestions or introductions or whatever they might be. And there was quite a difference between a Kevin style and a Jackie style and an Andy style too. Guess what we all had in common was desire to make the investment and figure it out, what way and how we could get it done and convince the entrepreneurs that it was the right thing for them. When you think back, I didn't think about it then, but it was very unusual to have a woman in the midst. And what's more, I was older than Kevin and Andy and so forth too. I was going to ask you just about TA's openness to hiring you in the first place. I understand that you've never really worn the kind of the women's badge loudly, but there's a book called Gatekeepers of Venture Growth, The History of Women in BC. Because nothing else, like you said, there just weren't many. But consider this, even going back to the mid-90s, in 1995, Pratt's Guide to Venture Capital listed only 346 women in Venture Capital, which represented less than 10% of Venture Capital. So that was 1995. So go back an additional 15 years, and there were a handful, but there was obviously something there. And I remember coming across a story, I can't remember exactly where it was, but it was maybe even a resistance from one company of you serving on the board as a woman. And I think Kevin said the deal either happens with Jackie on the board or it doesn't happen. Big volumes about the independent thinking, if nothing else, and the willingness to build a partnership of true diversity that you could accept people had different views and people had different backgrounds. But if you believed if you were confident in their investment judgment, you were actually better off having a firm of a lot of that diversity of thought. I have to say, it's amazing. Peter Brook was the one who brought me in. Kevin didn't. I think Kevin would probably was gasped. What are we doing? Why are we doing this? I don't know. But Peter was the one that said, well, yeah, I think we could find a place for you. And then it was out of self-defense that I found the way of finding companies because I knew that the only way to get ahead was to have investments. And I didn't have the Oldboy Network. I had my husband's Oldboy Network and I went through that quickly. But both Peter and Kevin gave me the opportunity when I suddenly said, got the D&Bs and said, I need to go to Texas or to go to Denver or whatever. I had to see these three or four companies and go ahead. They never asked anything about it. Just you're on your own. A lot of it has to do with the environment within a firm, I think. How open are they to letting someone succeed in whatever way they find it possible. We often just in studying other investors, there's classically a philosophical value orientation where you are maybe looking to buy more companies if their stocks have sold off. There's another mindset of that would be watering the weeds, so to speak. And then there's another perspective of allowing greatness to keep going. And that can happen at the company level, where you just continue to support the companies that you're seeing. The market is saying there's traction here, it's working, keep going. And I think it also can happen in people. And it sounds like it was one of those environments where if you were contributing and something was working, they were going to lean into that as opposed to feel challenged because you were doing it differently. And part of that meant to going into different fields and not just sticking with what would have been done in the past. I think being open to new possibilities. And I would say that one of the great things about Peter and Kevin too, but Peter was setting the mood, was an openness to try new things and new approaches and not just do the tried and true way of your old contacts and so forth. I can remember the pricing, how much has it been a cost to get these DMBs, 50 of them, my goodness. Are these going to pay off? And then of course, I don't know, they're still using it or not. Someone downloads your biography from going to Google. It's phenomenal. It's long. I'll give you that. And I think maybe there's another component here where it seems like you did have the freedom not only within TA, within software to carve out your very large niche. You were able to be expansive in the way you lived your life, whether it was moving to Pittsburgh alongside Jeff with his role in Melon Bank, playing those video games from Sierra Online. I was actually in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where I grew up for most of my childhood. And so when I read your biography as a trustee of Carnegie Museum, Andy Warholm Museum, Pittsburgh Public Theater, Pittsburgh Symphony, those were where I took all my field trips as a kid. So thank you for all your work on those. But the list goes way beyond that, both in boards of companies, but in so many philanthropic organizations. What does philanthropy mean to you? Why did you spend so much time in this area? Part of that, as you list all those past endeavors, was the cultural part. I was definitely very interested in theater and cultural symphony and all of that. So that was just another part of my interest. Back at Stanford, my favorite courses were the art courses on the history of art and modern art and so forth and so on. And I became a docent in Boston and so forth. And Jeff, I was teaching him about the history of art and collecting art and so forth. And so we did it together and have a very nice collection of modern art. And then I was involved with the War Hall, which was a lot of fun, interesting. And then I'll tell you just to cure Alzheimer's, just because this is something that we never told anybody about until my husband died a year ago, more or less. I had gone to Canyon Ranch for the exercise and health things and so forth. And we got genetic testing. And then we came back and I came home. I'd been out running. I came back and he was just sitting, just completely ejected. I said, Jeff, what in the world is the matter? And he said, I just got my Canyon Ranch results. I'm double APOE 4. And I don't know whether you all know what that means, but it means you're going to get Alzheimer's. And we're both stunned. And I already knew that I was double APOE 3, so which is common. And then a couple of days later, he says, I've decided what we're going to do. We're going to start this foundation and find a cure. That's it. He was a very dynamic person. And so we found Rudy Tanzi and said to Rudy, he was Harvard Mass General, and we want to put this foundation together to find a cure for Alzheimer's. And so that's how it all got started. And Jeff was driving it because he felt he needed to do that. And Cure Alzheimer's is doing wonderful work and continues to. And Jeff never got Alzheimer's. It was amazing. But he had a heart condition as he died. But he knew everything going on to the very end. And so we have this foundation as a result of doing those Alzheimer's tests. And hopefully, it's going to still solve the problem. And just for our listeners, for some context, this is an initiative that's funded at least $220 million in pure research grants. And there's been incredible groundbreaking discoveries on account of those grants and the scientists that you all have supported. I think the discovery of many genes, it's an incredible effort. It's just hundreds and millions of people around the world who either themselves are impacted by it or our family members or friends of folks that's been in my family as well. And we're certainly grateful to you and to Jeff and the others for taking this on and for the tremendous work. We've actually made a small donation in your family's honor to Cure Alzheimer's. Oh, thank you. That's very nice. For those who are out there who may also have this as part of their family story and are interested in learning more and even donating, the website is curealz.org. And also we didn't touch on it, but the way that the four of you really almost applied a whole new venture model to this space. And so again, your innovation is prolific. It's everywhere. It's had a tremendous impact in private equity and in software, but also in these just critical areas of human health and attempting to put your mark on the world in a way we believe it better. Well, thank you. Thank you. Thank you for all that you've done in your career. I know you still got more to do. And I'm just encouraged by your story and we're grateful that you trusted us to tell this story because I think it's one that deserves more light to be shined on it. And I know that many, including the two of us, will be inspired by it. Thank you so much. It's fun to talk about everything. And it's great to be with you.