Hey, what's up, it's Joe. Welcome to Freestyle Friday 4, April 18th. So, yeah, it's been kind of nice. Just been at home all week. It's been refreshing, actually. Haven't been on the road. Just been recovering from my self-induced cold that I gave myself last week. My voice is a lot better than it was, so that's good. And yeah, just otherwise than that, just been working on the book. Been pushing out some sections of a new chapter on event data modeling. Hope to have the rest of it done either today or tomorrow, along with the newsletter. And yeah, I'm just going to be plowing away on more material. Got a lot coming. And yeah, some things in my mind this week. You know, there's no shortage of things I was going to talk about today. I had a kind of a toss-up between this and several other topics, but I think, you know, this is a bit timely here. You know, it's no secret that the world is in a very, very, very turbulent place right now, whether you're talking tariffs, whether you're talking, you know, trade wars, whether you're talking just the ongoing layoffs and uncertainty that had been happening before the whole tariff debacle, you know, and everything else going on. Yeah, it's definitely a stressful time. And this week, I got a good email from another CEO. So this is a blog run by David Politis. I think that's how you pronounce his name, and then my friend Nick Freund. And they definitely give a lot of good advice to founders and, you know, operators, you know, about just the kind of the hard truce of running a business. And they had a very good article this week, she came out yesterday, called This is Wartime. And the subtitle is, No Matter What Happens, Start Planning Now. And so it's directed at CEOs. It goes through this notion of a wartime CEO. And a wartime CEO is something that Ben Horowitz, actually one of the, I think one of the founders of Andreessen Horowitz, my name, A16Z. He wrote a book a while ago called The Hard Thing About Hard Things. And in that book, he talked about, you know, how there's a peacetime CEO and there's a wartime CEO. And the notion of a wartime CEO is really that you are operating against existential pressure, right? You are thriving during crises, you make swift decisions, you're decisive. And, you know, this is very different from a peacetime CEO where you can be maybe a bit more chill about things, so to speak. But yeah, I think by all accounts, the business climate right now, globally, it's war. There's layoffs happening. God, it seems no matter, you know, I talk to people all around the world, you know, on a daily basis, I would say, my conversations span people around the world, definitely on a weekly basis. And so, you know, there's no shortage of stories I hear and context I get. And it seems, across the board right now, it's just gnarly out there. Companies are doing layoffs. You know, I heard the other day, some, one of my friends had a company where they did like, I think it was like 40% layoffs or something like that. So that's pretty nuts. You know, I was supposed to, I was talking to somebody about giving a talk at, you know, a pretty big company, and then come to find out that that, you know, then this person reaches back out and says, oh, never mind, we just got rid of our CEO and most of the C-suite at the company, and yeah, it's getting pretty gnarly out there, right? And so it got me thinking, just what's the notion of, you know, the people who listen to this podcast are mostly data people? So it's the, what's the notion of a wartime data team, right? I think that, you know, data teams have already been operating under a lot of pressure, you know, especially in the States. It's been tough, to say the least, you know, data teams' head counts are typically declining. Data teams in themselves may be cut. That's how it is. And, you know, if you kind of go back to this CEO article, I think this will kind of set it up, you know, some of the suggestions made in this article will set up for what I'm going to talk about, because you're going to be on the receiving end of these things. So, you know, this is back to this article. This is wartime. You know, basically, it's just a number. I'll put the link in the show notes here, but, you know, you, you know, it says, you are now a wartime CEO. Nobody is coming to save you. Everyone, customers, vendors, partners, investors, is dealing with their own fire. Wishful thinking will not help. So, and it goes on to offer some advice. Expect every function to feel the impact. It goes on to say, in the next few weeks, you'll find that your sales cycle will now be longer. Prospects will have become far more price-sensitive, and they won't want to commit to long-term agreements. Right, so you need to be proactive and paranoid. I think to some degree, paranoia is actually always healthy when you're in business. You know, number three, make your contingency plans now. So, you know, work on three plans of the CFO, the control your own destiny plan, the runway extension plan, and the cleanup plan. This is basically the control your own destiny plan is, what if you had to be profitable immediately? This plan, will it feel brutal? If you feel like you're cutting to the bone, because you, it will feel like you're cutting to the bone, because you probably are. The runway extension plan, what would it take to extend your runway 12 to 18 months? How would this impact your business and growth plans? And finally, the cleanup plan. This plan trims the fat without materially impacting the business, right? So yeah, these are some things that obviously, some of the points make it easier for customers and prospects to say yes. There's a variety of things you can do, from pricing to terms to everything else. Focus your message on cost savings. Yeah, I think that's interesting. I tend to look at it two ways. I think people are interested in cost savings. They're also interested in... I always found it's easier to actually message things in terms of how much money you can make versus how much money you can save, but I get it here. Renegotiate everything. I think you should always be doing that, but especially now. Keep your team informed and grounded. Don't promise anything you can't guarantee. Again, I think this advice goes both in good and bad times, but especially now when people are scared, over-communicate, as I say, be transparent and be vulnerable. If you have investors, stay close to your investors. Again, I think you should always do that. Secure capital while you still can. Again, I think you should always do that. And again, this too will pass, right? So I think that goes without saying, but it's easy to think that this time is different, and perhaps it is. I think we're dealing with unprecedented amounts of volatility. I would say just, you know, in the case of the situation that there's just like one person at the helm of pretty much the entire world at this point and seemingly makes decisions at the drop of a hat that seems to impact everybody. You know, we haven't had this at least in a long while. So that's what I think is a bit different this time is just there's a huge amount of unpredictability in the air. So it makes it hard, you know, as a business owner to plan, it makes it hard as an employee to plan. But all you can do is control what you can, right? And so, you know, but how does this affect wartime data teams, I would say, because this is probably tech teams in general, right? But I think this is this advice, I think is particularly important now. But I would also go on to say this is also something you should always focus on. And the first thing is, you know, mission driven focus, prioritize immediate high impact objectives over long term projects. This isn't to say that you shouldn't continue to put investment into long term projects. It's just, you know, you're going to have to have visible wins. That's how it is. You're a company, you probably won't want to invest in long term projects. I always feel that, you know, if you have something worth investing in, you should invest in it. Again, this puts you ahead of the competition that's retrenching. So, you know, the classic example is Microsoft back during the great financial crisis. You know, I believe it was Steve Ballmer was saying that when he was the CEO of Microsoft, that, you know, during the great financial crisis, they just put pedal to the metal and just kept moving fast, leaving the competition behind. So if you have that opportunity, I would say go for it. That's how I approach everything. I don't stop no matter what. You know, so I think that this is a good time if you want to get ahead of your competition, this is how you do it. But again, as a data team, you need to prioritize immediate, high-impact objectives and show visible delivery of those things. You know, rapid decision making, right? So emphasize speed and agility. You may not have the perfect data in a situation like this, because again, you're in a situation that doesn't exactly mimic, you know, the past, especially if you are in an industry that is impacted by the tariffs. Like, if you move physical goods or whatever, right? This is going to impact you. Like, I was having dinner last Saturday with, you know, a friend and family member, and they import furniture from China. And, you know, those cargo containers that you have, you know, those are on the ship, and each one of those cargo containers ended up costing my friends $40,000 each, and they had several of these, right? So you can imagine paying hundreds of thousands of dollars out of pocket for something that you weren't normally paying that much money to. Yeah, it's going to sting. And then it sucks for them because the customer had already negotiated a price, and so these people had to eat that cost. That sucks. They'll get through it, but this is what a lot of businesses are dealing with, you know, especially the businesses that are dealing with physical goods that need transport. It's going to get expensive. It sucks. There's no way else to put it, right? If you're trying to export right now to other countries, you know, they have, especially China, put reciprocal tariffs on us, and those are high, and yeah, it hurts. So, you know, I would say cross-functional collaboration is another thing. Work closely with other departments to ensure that your objectives, those immediate high-impact objectives, that they align with the urgent business needs across different departments. The last thing you want to do is deliver things in a silo, right? Work with other departments. This is wartime. You are going to need to operate horizontally as well as vertically, and you're going to need to deliver to other stakeholders the things they need, when they need them, and that means quick. This also means you maintain constant and clear communication within your team and with the stakeholders to adapt to a rapidly changing situation. So yeah, this is, you know, it's what was already, I think, a very difficult situation for data teams has become even harder, right? I would definitely also suggest leveraging, you know, AI as much as you can. I think it's a great productivity multiplier if you know what you're doing, and this can definitely help you, especially as teams are probably going to get cut even further. That's just the reality of it. So you're just going to see a trickle-down effect of just a lot of stuff, really. I remember during the great financial crisis, just the feedback loops with supply chains, with investment, a lot of stuff, right? You're going to see this again, like the US dollar's dropping in value, stocks are not doing great, you know, the bond market's an absolute mess right now. So you got a weird time when stocks and bonds are both going down, actually, which is, you know, that's not good when that happens. You know, and who knows? I mean, I'm not an economist. I've lived through a lot of, I'd say, gnarly financial situations. I got through them well, but I would say, personally, that was, you know, because I live pretty frugally, right? I'm not balling out, you know, getting a Lambo or extending myself. So, and maybe you are, maybe you aren't, right? But I would say just, you know, do what you can personally as well for your finances. You know, make sure you have a good cushion in case anything happens. But again, this is war time for CEOs, for everybody, you know, right now. It's, you're in a trade war. This is, and so it's going to get gnarly. And what, again, what was already a tough situation for data teams to prove themselves. Yeah, it's going to get that much tougher. I hate to say it, but that's life in the big city, right? So, we just hang in there. You know, things do get better. This is sort of the pendulum swing of reality. It's just, as a side note, it's also funny just that we tend to go through these, you know, once in a generation, you know, swings every few years now. So, I'm not sure what constitutes a generation, but yeah, definitely interesting. Let me see here, things going on. What is going on here? Next week, I'm actually doing a fun event with Monte Carlo. It's going to be about data quality. So, you'll see a, I guess, a link to that event in the newsletter coming out, and Deep Dish Data with Matillion on the 29th, me, Carly Taylor, and Mark Bocconetti, having some fun there. Then I'm off to London around, what was it, mid-May to go speak at Current, which is a Confluence Kafka event. So, that's going to be a lot of fun. And then just got a lot of travel coming up. So, anyway, looking forward to just getting a lot of the book sections published. I have a lot, just need to go through and edit and rewrite a few things. But yeah, I expect that that practical data modeling is going to be, you know, definitely, there's going to be a lot going on there. So, anyway, I hope you have a great weekend, and we'll talk to you later. Bye.