Lord Bane, Lord Theragon Bane himself, he has invited us to do a little, a little internal show tomorrow night. Yes, yes, I'm open for reading. If no one wins, they run you out of town. There's a lot of game, every town's got a lot of game. There's an infinite amount of game, buddy. There's only so much game to go around. And you come to town with your big, bright lights and your tents, and I hear there's a ghost amongst you. Hey, are you a jerk? What did you call me? You know, a ghost is the best eavesdropper in the world, right? You hear that the two, the kind of two rival political groups that are here, aren't really interested in Ullid. They're not even really interested in the Tetrad, the Four Moons. They are interested in finding something here. They are looking for like a treasure of some sort, something in the castle vault. And then the other thing that you hear is some people laughing about how tomorrow the Lord will invite them to the feast. Classic. We're invited to that feast, right? Maybe we're not used specifically, but yeah. The circuses. Yeah. And there's some real like, you know, how the feasts go. You know, bad, you know, horror movie or horror game NPC laugh, you know. This town maybe is full of jerks. Yeah, maybe this is a jerk town. There's something new every day. Anyone else getting up to anything? Um, can I, oh, two things. First of all, what's my split on this take with the jerk here? He says, oh, what's your take? Yeah, sorry, yeah, how many loops are we starting? I think the people out here are not even paying with loops. They're paying with coins, right? So you end up getting to three loops total between everybody watching, right? And I think this guy wants to split it 60-40 in favor of him. Hey, I'll do you one better. You can get 66 and I'll get 33. What's the game? Tell me about the Lord. Just the old Lord, you know? Aragon's been an all right guy, you know? My whole life, he's been the Lord. I heard his dad was a real curmudgeon, and, you know, he keeps the people fed, and he keeps the pigs fed. The pigs? He keeps the boars fed. Like the town's boars? Yeah, the town's boars. The underground boars. The underground boars? The pigs from below. Tell me about the... What are the pigs from below? The pigs from below? What do you mean? What are you... You're from... You're not... Are you... Where are you from? I'm from Dokeen. I thought you were an Oled clown. No. You're from... You're a Dokeen clown. Yeah. Oh, buddy. Oh. Yeah, he keeps the pigs fed. You're really not from Oled? I caught Oled vibes from you. No, I'm really not from Oled. What does that mean, Oled vibes? Well, it's just the way you do an uppercut, the way you do a belly flop. You adapt well. I'm impressed. I didn't even know there were farm clouds. You didn't know there were farm clouds? Now you're going to insult us. We're going to have to have a real fight again, buddy. I'm kidding you. Okay. Could we double back on the ground pigs? Well, I ain't never seen them. But you know, they make the soil good for the farming. How do they do that? With the pig magic? What do you want from me? Why don't you explain this to me like I'm five? Okay. I think the pig magic is how you explain to a five-year-old. Hey, little boy, do you know about the pigs? No, sir. Tell me. Tell me about the pigs. Every lord in Oled has a collection of pigs under the ground. Why? They do the pig magic that makes the soil good so we can grow our crops. Oh, stop. They're doing it. Sir, sir, why do they have pigs? Because we were blessed with the pigs. We got the boars and we got the boar lords. We stopped calling them boars a long time ago because they're not so fuzzy and furry. They're a little more piggy. And I don't mean that in like a big belly sense. No, I got to tell you, our lord does kind of have a boar thing going. Okay. No. My boss is meeting the lord. That's fine, right? I've never met a lord, but you know, the lord's surrounded by people. All right. Well, good show. Good show. See, there's always game. I got to tell you, you were right. There's always game. What's your name? Uh, Piaster. Well away. Well away Piaster. You're a Piaster. You're sure you're not from Ullad? I'm sure I'm not from Ullad. I'm from Durkheim. I'm a bee-aster. You're a bee-aster? I'm a bee-aster. I don't know the bee-asters. I think you might be a bee-aster. You're sure it's a P at the front? I'm sure it's a P. Okay. Well, no account for taste. The hell? Oh, I love playing reality. I used to play weirdos. It's great. This guy doesn't know what taste means. And it sounds like the end of a nice night. Everybody goes back home. You know, you find an earn. It's a nice earn. Is it the right earn? I don't know. Seems like it could be. Okay. Hey, nice earn. I mean, this is just a guy who sells meat. What's due? You know, it's just you're just looking for a nice earn. Is it like an earn that you like put ashes in or is it like an earn you put coffee in? What type of earn are you going to come back with? That's the same earn to some people. Yeah. Shouldn't be. Coffee, probably. Coffee, probably. Maybe I had like a magical amulet that I used to figure out which earn to get. A magical amulet to help you find? Where's that on the sheet? You know, you hold it over the table and you see which one it slides towards. Well, to me, that sounds like I always know how to ritually summon the power of the moons. Sure. I guess, yeah. I guess the moons are involved in that. You know, the moons have gravity. The moons move the locket. Well, then you get a good earn. Wow. The earn has a picture on it, and it's a coffee earn. It has really delicate painting on it, or really delicate, like, drawing on it, really slim lines with light color. And it is an image of, it's an image that you can see, like, it's on each side of the earn has a, actually it is, it is an eight-sided earn that has like, it's like a octagonal in shape, with like hard edges. And on each side, there is an image. And on the first side, it is a frog jumping. And on the second side, it is a stone skipping across water. And then on the third side, it's always like things in motion, you know what I mean? It's like that style of like, a thing hopping, a thing jumping, a thing landing, you know? It's a verb pot. It's a verb pot, right, exactly. There's like a fish jumping, there's like a dragon fly, you know, coming over the water or whatever. It's kind of like generally aquatic themed in nature, you know? And maybe the front one is actually, I said the frog was the front. I think the front is a bridge, and the little like spout that the coffee comes out of is underneath the bridge. And I imagine this is like, I'm thinking about this a lot like, kind of like Japanese prints I've seen, or prints of like old Japanese art. That style of kind of like flat distance, you know, where like, there's not, things are drawn without a, a, accurate's the wrong word, because it's an artistic stylization thing, right? But scale and distance are represented flatly, right? Perspective. Yeah, the perspective is not like one-to-one reality. It is, sometimes it's greater, you know, it's emphasizing things in a greater way, but often it's just kind of like, oh, this bridge is the same size as this frog and it's not because it's a tiny bridge, you know? Like medieval art. Medieval art also does, just in general, right? Yeah, pre-perspective art, basically. And yeah, so yeah, there's this urn. You sense that the urn will keep coffee warm for a long time. It's a sense you have. It's like pretty well insulated, despite being an antique urn. Nice. And... Oh, it's for drinking coffee, not for coffee grounds. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, you know, you go to an event and they have an urn of coffee there, you know? Or an urn of tea? Yes. Oh, yeah, now I know. Do you not know? Do you not know this? I have not ever seen a thing that has hot coffee and it's described as an urn. It's a coffee urn. This is like a whole thing. You're going to see one of these and go like, oh, those are what those are called? I worked at coffee shops. Yeah, but you have to work in a place that's not a coffee shop. It's a coffee shop is not going to have an urn of coffee because they make the coffee. A no, you make big batch coffee. And I think what you're saying is a urn. A wedding is going to have a coffee urn. Sure. You know, a big silver like a steel thing that's just filled with coffee. Anyway, the next morning comes. And I think only two of you, I mean, obvious, no offense to you. I guess, Donnie, you don't get the ticket. But early in the morning, Curly comes by first to you, Wellaway. Sorry, I'm still remembering character names, Wellaway. And is like, hey, I heard about your whole, you went into the town and then put on a double show. Yeah, we did. Yeah. I hate to do this, but we do need the cut. You know, you're not allowed to go freelance. Well, I gave, I gave the cut because I knew. No, but we need our cut. You know, you can't, you're, you're, you're a circus clown, Wellaway. Circus takes the cut. Look, these, these guys in town, they're, they're not happy about the circus. This was coming to blows. This was, this was a, this was to protect the, me, the circus, everybody. This was not for fun, for money. This is, they've, they're calm now. They're fine. They get it. Wellaway, I want my cut. This is another conflict. Curly intends for you to pay your cut of this money. I think more importantly, Curly wants you to remember your place. What is Curly's place again? The head of the circus or at least the... Oh, this is one of the... This is a Krinsky. This is Curtis Curly-Krinsky. This is, yeah. Okay. And what am I using here? I think this is, I always make myself heard. Okay. Hmm. I do want to defend this. Uh, I'm gonna defend with, I always bring joy with my antics. And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna hold the loop. And I'm gonna pull the loop away when he goes to grab it. And I'm just gonna not let him grab it. And I'm hoping that he's going to really laugh about how funny this is. And I'm just gonna pocket it and walk away whistling. And it works somehow. It counters. I always make myself heard. I think I know how. He goes, ow. It's one loop. Why didn't you just tell me it was a loop? I keep it. Of course, it was just a loop. I heard it was a whole big crowd. It was a whole big crowd. They had nothing. They had nothing. Keep the loop. They came here. This is what I'm saying. They came here and spent all their money here today. I get it. I'm sorry. All right. Well, bring it in. Bring it in. Bring it in. Cause I got a little something for you. Okay. I bring it in. Golden ticket. Golden ticket. You're gonna come on in. What does it do? It lets you into the castle, the citadel. Big show. I want to see you. Big show. Show them a little what you showed the town last night cause rumors are spreading. You got what it takes to be a Marquis Act. Marquis Act? No more well-a-way piaster. The Boar King? The Boar Lord? And the banana whatever. Yeah. Whoever. That sounds right. Gunt. Sure. Grent. Yeah. Banana Clown. Plenty plantain. Yeah. No more clown barracks for you. Clown bunks. Barracks make it sound like you're like clown soldiers. We're also wearing the camouflage. Yeah, you're the one. The blueberry camouflage. If you do well tonight. A hundred clowns in a little tank. Yeah. If you do well tonight, I'm thinking it's Big Tent time. Whoa. Your name in lights. Before we land at our next destination, we send the screamers ahead and we let them scream your name. People hear it. They go, oh. Screamer. Wellaway Piazza. That's a name I heard. That's a name worth screaming. It's a name worth screaming. Wellaway! That's them now. I haven't been practicing. I can see it. I can hear it. But if you screw up. I can taste it. Maybe we leave you behind. Okay. Tell me about the Lord. I won't even press the Lord. I heard he's a pig. Okay. Well, first of all, I'm glad we're working this out now. You don't call the Lord a pig. I heard he's a pig lord. No. He's a castle lord. He's a lord of castles. I heard he's a magic pig who feeds the underground pigs. No, the pigs are underground. He's not magic. He's just a castle lord. Oh, you know about the underground pigs? Yeah. All it has a whole underground pig thing, I guess. Okay. Well, if you know about it, then I want to know more. Come on. It's an underground pig thing. It's pig magic. You keep the pigs fed. Pig magic. And I don't know what that means. Maybe that's bad. But you're not going to feed us to the pigs. That is, I slightly am worried about that. We've dealt with how many bad things have we dealt with over the years? You name the first six, I'll name the second six. We'll go back and forth. Okay, there was quicksand. There was the vampire. There was the slowsand. There was the maelstrom. There was the... No, that's bad. There was the really, really tall tree that spit acorns. There was the little mosquito swarm that stuck around for a year. Um, there was the witch who wanted to make a house out of clowns. There was that annoying reporter. There was the... There was the strangely alluring reporter. There was the just right reporter who we thought was on our side and then they went and published that story, you know the one, filled with lies. How many is that so far? Six. Ten? Yeah. Okay. My last one then... No, not my last one. My second to last one is... No, I think it's your last one because we're doing twelve. Ten, then you eleven, then you twelve. You're doing eleven. Oh, I'm doing eleven now. You went first, Keith. Okay. So then there was... The very first problem that we ever had was the other lord who tried to feed us to some other thing. Fuck, you took mine. Well, and then there were the space pirates. Okay. And we'll say on the count of three what the thing was that the first lord tried to feed us to. Could we both have a good memory of? Real clear memory. Yes. Three... Oh, it was an incident. It was an incident. It was in the newspaper. It was actually how we met one of the first three reporters. All right. Three, two, one. Shark. Giant shark without a u. Giant shark. That's right. I almost said giraffe, which would have worked. Giraffe. Giraffe shark. The giraffe shark. Longest neck you ever saw on that thing. Yes. Sharpest teeth. Longest neck. And if we could have gotten through all that, we can get through a lord who tries to feed people to pigs. You know, I'm going to say something. We sound like best friends right now. We sure do. He started it there wouldn't feed us to pigs. Now it's, we can deal with it. Well, that's, you know, yeah. Anyway, I gotta go. I gotta go give some more golden tickets out. Oh, okay. How many? Low number? Shut up. Walks out of the clown barracks. And goes to you, hi. What? Um, uh, are you, now that you're near where the food is, I'm just imagining you, like, hanging out in the cafeteria all the time, which might not be right. That's fair. I mean, what time of day is it? It's eggs time. It's eggs time? Yeah, the first meal of the day, eggs time? Yeah, eggs. Eggs. I was trying to be like, where would I be if you described the time with a food? So I guess I am. That's how it works in carnival time. We are at the eggs hour, we are not at the fries hour, and we are not at the stew hour. Fries is like the middle. Fries is like when the carnival is going. You can always sneak a few fries in at a time. Right, right, okay, sure, sure. So we are still right in the middle of eggs. Yeah, I can be standing over a big griddle. Griddles are fun. Like looking at it, like standing way right over it. Get a little, I can't, oh, wow. You see, we can whistle way better than this. Let me see if I can get it. Have I lost my whistle? Oh no. No, you gotta practice whistling. Maybe I need a drink of water. Let me get some water in me, see if I can whistle. Yeah, I've lost my whistle. You have to go up onto that roof and start whistling daily. Is that the kind of whistling we think Ali is looking, we think that Hai is looking at a griddle going. No, the boy, those things look good. Curtis was going to show up and do that for the eggs. Oh, okay. Damn fine looking eggs. Anyway, shows up, does a bad whistle, goes a little embarrassed about it, and then goes, I heard about you meeting one of those negotiator folks. Oh, yes. If I remembered the thing that they were, I would have said that now, but I don't. I don't know that I ever gave you a real name. I gave you their names, but I didn't give you their status name. They're tree people that we've not seen before. That is right. They're tree people that you've not seen before. They are parts of the Free Moon Assembly is where they're from. And then I made some hilarious joke out of there. You did. Oh, yes. The woman from the assemblage. Well, you're going to get to meet her again. Here's your ticket. Golden ticket. Boom. Right in your hand. Oh, I beg your pardon. I'm going to the castle. Going inside tonight. You're going to have to read some fortunes. Maybe we can set up on a balcony or something where you can still see the sky. But we figured it would be a good, you know, the way we're thinking about it is we're going to have some stations set up. We'll have the main show in the middle and then we'll have some food and then we'll have like some side activities for people to do. And you could be where you're going to be one of the side activities. That way people want to get away from the hustle and bustle and come over, sit down, have their fortunes read. Do you know why the castle has requested us? My understanding is negotiations have been stressful. And they want a little, you know, entertainment. Take the stress off, calm things down, get everybody back on the same. You know, sometimes you need a shared... Centering entertainment. We always talk about centering entertainment here at the circus. Sorry. We always talk about entertainment here at those nerveless chancers, the Krinsky Family Circus and Traveling Curiosity. And we think that part of the way centering entertainment works is you get everybody on the same page, you know? Everybody gets their fortune read by you, then maybe you slip in a phrase across all the different fortunes, and that becomes a thing that everybody can kind of like connect about. Oh, wow, you know, I also heard that the sun would rise, there's no sun, I also heard that Realis' light would glitter blue, extra blue, on Thursday, or everybody goes and sees a piaster and says, oh, do you see when he fell over funny? And then everybody goes, you know, has that in their back pocket. So when negotiations happen and someone screws up, everyone goes, oh, it was just like when the clown fell over funny. And everybody kind of, it's an icebreaker, you know? Yeah, it just seems unfair that they wouldn't enjoy the circus the way it's meant to, the way it's designed to be. Well, sometimes it's a security thing, right? You're a lord of a whole castle, you gotta come to the circus, maybe you gotta bring too many guards that ruins it for everybody else. Well, I thank you for my ticket. I will see you there. Not bright and early, because it's bright and early now, but I'll see you there come fry time. Oh, are we bringing fries? That's going to be one of the foods, so. Wonderful. All right, good seeing you. You know what, actually, while I'm here, could you, I think I'll just do a little, I know it's daytime, I know it's hard to see some of the moons, but you can see some of them. Oh, yes. Maybe, is that possible? You could do a little reading? I can give you a quick one, yes, yes. I realized before what I should have done, the thing that I should do for a quick reading is that when I read the positions of the moons, there should be a magical figure drawn in the sky based off of that. And then I give you a letter corresponding with that shape. A letter? Like a little envelope or something that has your thing in it. I see. That's fun. And then if you were getting it, if you were doing the all day, I'm the ruler of a nation. The fool. Right. A full spread as they would say in the tarot world. That would be like that. You would not have the pre-printed thing. It would be somebody sitting down with that shape and giving it. And then interrogating it and working through what it might mean and all that. Interesting. All right. So what do you do? What do you read here? What do I read here for my carnival boss? I mean, there's something fun here. It's like your sentence is your first one, I always read the future in the stars, suggests that you can read the future. Your second one is I always sense which prediction someone needs to hear, which is like cold reading, right? And does it necessarily imply that it's real or not real? Right, but... Yeah, it means that you can sort of tailor your cell of whatever the prediction is. Yeah. So I think that I tell my carnival boss, who seems like a nice guy, that I think the prediction is based on like community. It's like one of those like, oh, this is the card. In tarot terms, it would be like, this is the card with a bunch of people on it, you know? And this is talking about like, maybe the person in your life you're thinking of, or a group of people. Right, right, right, yeah. And I think the way that I tell him it is like, you know, you have to trust in the ability of the people around you. Oh, yeah. I'll take that to heart. You have a fine day. Thanks, hi. I'll see you in a little bit. And then let's close the loop here. Now that loops mean money, it means something different. It doesn't really make sense. Oh, I love to close the loop. End the cycle. End the cycle. I'm closing loops. That's where it came from. The loops. You close the loop, you close the loop. Once you get the full 10 coins on it, you close the loop. So you don't slip off. You don't want to lose the coins. It's the micro-narrative of going from having no coins to having 10 coins. That's right. Candy shows, where do you, where do you, do you sleep, Tommy? Probably not. You just stay up all night. I think sometimes it like sort of disassociates. Sort of like- A really party animal just isn't around anymore. Yeah. Well, maybe before those other scenes, even early in the morning. Actually, no, it's the other way. Having slept in past their normal bedtime, Candide shows up and finds you. It has like a little sketch or a little, it's like a little handmade book of sketches. It is a catalog. It has a really fun name. It's like a catalog of curiosities and, I mean, we just used the in-universe word for it. A catalog of curiosities and ephemera of the thousand moons. And it is a little book of sketches and write-ups of various like magical implements and magical goods and rare treasures that they found at the antique market last night. And they come up to you and they go, Donnie, Donnie, Donnie, Donnie. They sort of rouse in a way that they reassemble. Donnie, I think that they have a real special in the vault here. Hmm? Real special. That guy, the guard, who came in and gave us a bunch of guff? Yeah. Are you all right, Donnie? It just takes a second to re-substruct. Donnie, it's almost fry time. All right. What's going on? What did I need to do this morning? Not this morning. Tonight. Yeah. We could make it big, big. Big, big. Big, big. We could get our own ship. We could... You and me and... Well, we don't need this place anymore. We could make it big, big. What do you need me to do? It's called the skipping stone. It's like... There was the guard. The guard had a ring. The guard had a ring. And on the ring, it was... I'm pretty sure it's a little sliver of the skipping stone. It's a gem. Big gem. Big as my face. Big as your face? And it's magical. And it's in this book. Look, it says here, it was lost on Ollid. And this is Ollid. And the color's the same. Okay. And you know where this vault is? I was hoping you could help a little with the whole being a ghost thing, you know. Well, sure. But it helps a little if you have like an idea. I can't check the whole planet. Well, I think it's... here's the thing. The local guard had a little piece of it, which I think is probably given, my guess, given as gifts to all the little bootlickers who work for the Lord. And that means it's here. It means it's in the vault. My guess is the vault is under, at a low level of the Citadel. Okay, I'll, I'll look. I mean, I'm going to come with you. Great. That's even better. I didn't really want to go by myself. Me either. I'm glad we're agreed here. We are in perfect alignment. It's great to see. All right, I'm gonna go get ready. Big, big! Big, big! And runs away full of excitement to figure out if this magical stone could really be their ticket into a new life. The planet turns. Soon enough, it's fry time. The realest is setting and the bright lights of the reflections of the realest is light on the moons, dot the skies, and the chosen members of the Krinsky Family Circus begin to make their way inside the Citadel, where negotiators and visitors await an entertaining show where a vault holds many surprises, though it is not the only thing underground here. And we will figure out exactly what all that is next time. So at the end of a session, there's a set of things that you do to kind of get ready to pick up and play next time. First and foremost, if you worked towards achieving your dream, mark a dot next to one means of your choice. Be generous to yourself. Characters don't need to move the world in order to have, in order to have worked towards their dream. The path is long, and even stumbling steps move you closer to it or move you further. So if you feel like you did anything here toward to get closer to your dream, go ahead and mark a sentence of your choice, a means of your choice. Now we fill up the three, and then it changes from a 0 to a 1. Then it becomes primed, and we'll talk about primed sentences when something gets primed. I definitely feel like I did that. I think that those guys that I turned around with the show, that feels a lot like a little bit of my dream. Yeah, you're working towards it bit by bit. Is it, when you say a sentence of your choice... A sentence of your choice? A sentence of your choice, okay. I would say probably it should be relevant in some way, but it is a means of your choice, right? Yeah. Generally speaking, you probably want that to be a class sentence because it was the ones that it matters the most, you know? Yeah. Ali, Art? I don't think that I did, but I feel on the pathway. If you feel like you're on the pathway, you're probably on the pathway and you should give it to yourself, right? So, like, I would say, if you're thinking of witnessing the alignment of the moons, I think finding a magical urn or a magical urn, because it's a reminder, and actually maybe we should give this to you as an ephemera. No, because you're giving it to Kenneth. It's not your urn. Yeah. That always keeps coffee warm. You use the magic power of that. And you found a thing that, like, is about keying you in that you're in a locality that's close to where this magical artifact is, right? I think that that's totally fine. So I would give yourself this. I'm not sure I did. Yeah. I think it came up briefly that you felt that there's something about this place that you feel tied closer to somehow, even though you're not from this moon. But we didn't really dig into it beyond me saying that in passing. Right. You didn't take any action. So I think that's where I would draw the, if I had to draw a line here, it's did you take action around the sense of your dream in some way? But maybe we'll do that today. Or maybe we'll do that next time we replay. I'm going to give myself a click next to I Always Anger the Powerful, which is not exactly what happened in that scene, but it was what happened when I got back to the Krinsky's, and they chewed me out for doing an unsanctioned carnival performance. Does that make sense? Then, so the next thing here is you choose a means that shaped how you played your character, but did not mark during play, mark it. Just as a dream can draw a character towards it, sometimes a sentence shapes one's actions in a greater way than simple accounting may show. Though no failure was felt, your character may still have gained wisdom from the burden such a sentence put on them. If you can't decide which sentence to mark, consider choosing one that you're really looking at for an opportunity to call on as such a posture undoubtedly shaped your character's actions in play. So was there a sentence here that you didn't use, you didn't fail with, but you're like, damn, this is one that was like important to me this session. I don't think I used I always reveal the truth. You, it doesn't have to be one you did use or didn't use. It can be any of them. It's one that you think shaped your play in some way, even though it wasn't marked. So I guess it's one that you didn't mark during play. Right, which is all of them. Yes, correct. Yeah. I'm going to give it to myself for I always bring joy with my antics, which is, I think, what I did almost every time I got a chance to. Yeah, that makes sense. Yep. Hi, what did you end up picking for the first one? I wonder, what are you picking for the second one? I think for the second one, I'm choosing, I always sense which prediction someone needs to hear. Totally. That makes sense. And the first one, I clicked it for I am always bound by my destiny. The reason I felt hesitant about it is because I didn't feel like I acted on it so much as like I feel like I'm in the right place to act on that, you know what I mean? Yeah, totally. That makes sense. That really, these are really flexible ways of letting you mark sentences, basically. And the last steps here are things that we can kind of do. It's write down the current status of your token. I think you all have your token, Yak, at this point. So it should all be marked. They are. And then review your means, ensuring that they were properly marked. I don't think anyone failed on anything. I don't think anyone used any ephemera. I don't think we used the band sentence or any moon sentences that failed. Did Art fail when Donnie gave the basket to the magistrate? No. Art succeeded. Okay. Art succeeded. In fact, it just went weird for strange reasons. But it wasn't a failure, actually. Okay. There was a situation of like, the intent was not, don't be noticed, right? It was make the ball go in. Weird one that I probably should have played differently, but here we are, it's actual play. I'm not going to go back in time and fix it. It didn't end up mattering. No, exactly. I tried to soften it in the shakeout. All right. Finally, review bonds, dreams, and band sentences. None of these things have dots. None of these things have changed. We don't need to change anything here. If you want to change your band sentence, you can, but that would seem kind of silly at this point. So I decided to mark, I always frighten those who perceive me because of how that was playing. Yeah. And it wasn't it wasn't frightening. Uh-huh. It was frightening adjacent. Sure. Frightening adjacent. Yeah. The prequels took 19 years for people to admit they were good. Unless you were Keith J. Carberry. Like, let it sit there for 19 years. And those people that admit they're good, they're not even right about why they're good. And Attack of the Clones is still a garbage movie for garbage people. It's not good. It's still not good. It has some fun ideas. It has some fun bits. It has some great ideas, but they're not, it's not a good movie. Keith, we can't get into this. That's what I was hoping you'd say. I mean, do you want to talk about this for half an hour? Today, we are continuing our game of Realis, which prizes passivity except after wisdom gained, recognizes friendship strength and rewards solitary achievement, shifts in scope and scale according to the needs of the story or the whims of its tellers, and demands honesty and consequence but care at the table. We should go over our foundation sentences again, which are over here. Our story never depicts sexual assault or sexual violence. Our story never describes injury. And our story always depicts violence in stylish and romantic ways. There's always romantic there, meaning in the genre sense, big swashbuckling action. How's everybody doing? Do we need any sort of check-in, any changes on the foundation sentences before we go to this big party in a castle? Are there any castle-related or party-related foundation sentences we feel like we need to add before continuing? No. Okay. So yeah, you've all been invited. I guess Donnie, you and Candide were not invited, but you're a ghost and she's a little kid who sneaks in wherever the fuck she wants. Did she get a key to something? She had a key. No, she recognized that the... I don't think she got a key. I think she just got the... I just listened to this. I don't remember her getting a key. Okay. Maybe I'm misremembering though. It's possible. If she needed a key to get into somewhere, I think it would have just been into the building. I remember there was a vault. I thought someone got a key to the vault. I don't think she got the key to the vault. Maybe she just knows about the key? She knows there is a vault underneath the citadel. You have to get there to get into the vault. Maybe I'm misremembering this, but I don't know that I would have eliminated y'all needing to get the key to the vault. I think that might be too quick a maneuver for me. Unless you had some idea that the key was not good or not helpful. Right, exactly. Or that getting into the vault was somehow a bad move. Exactly, yeah, totally, which I don't remember that, so. But yeah, so, Hi and Piazza, you've both also been given golden tickets, which will allow you to enter the Citadel tonight. The circus has been kind of set up in the courtyard, you know, in front of the Citadel, between the Citadel and the main town, basically. And mostly has been for a combination of, you know, the townies and then also the kind of like visitors, like the people from the two different factions who are visiting, or like people from the Citadel, but not like the lords and ladies of the Citadel have not come down, right? They have stayed up there. And so you're being invited in to like be part of, you know, the circus has basically been hired to do part of the act, you know, to like some subsection of the acts inside the castle, inside the Citadel. And so, yeah, well away and hi, you're both expected to show up, turn in that golden ticket, set up your booths or run, you know, do your clown show, do your schtick, and entertain the hosts, your hosts. And you've both been promised not just extra pay, which as a reminder, 10 coins is a loop, 10 loops is a lope, and 10 loops is an oop. That's our money system. Thank you. That's a great system. Also other... It sounds like what you get paid for doing a clown show. Also important, carnival terminology, the three times of day. Does anybody remember the three times of day? Um, oh, fuck. I remember there was something about eggs. That's right. Eggs is the time before the show starts, before the carnival opens. Then it's fries, it's fries time, because you got to sneak in a few fries. Oh my god. And then stew is the end of the day. You get your stew. Eggs, fries, and stew, yeah. I can't believe, saying eggs, I was like, there's no way this is right. But it was right. Dead right. That's funny. They've got me on a stew egg tonight. Oh my. Oh no. God, I thought they stopped scheduling those. Brutal. So yeah, so you're expecting to go in, and it would be, you know, that is kind of true. This is a, it's a, it's a, at night, right? Like it's supposed to go past when stew would normally begin. You know, it starts late in the fryer. You got eggs for stew. You got stew for eggs. You got stew for eggs. Really what it is, is you got fries for stew, and we'll see, because they could run, fries could run right into eggs tonight. We know, which we don't like. You got to have a little stew in there, which is a problem. Fries could run into eggs? What? I know. So yeah, I think we open on, like I said during the intro, Realis allows us to shift in scope and scale according to the needs of the story. By that, we don't need to tell every little bit between the last time we started playing, and now we can even zoom out, as I'm often heard to say, or zoom in for more detail. In this case, let's just come in on the big group of people from the circus making their way across a bridge, towards the Citadel, almost like a parade. It's funny because everybody has to turn in one of these big golden tickets to get access to the interior of the Citadel. But it's also like you've been invited and you're showing up in a parade format, so it's like a big parade starts moving, and then you have to stop as someone gives their ticket and they get to let it in, and the big parade starts back up and you stop and someone's called forward and it hands over the ticket again and moves forward. I think this is a group of people. It's almost like it's almost too many people who can fit on the pathway and the little bridge that leads into the Citadel. I like an overhead shot of this. In my mind, this almost looks like something out of, oh my God, Paparico or some other, what is the name of that anime director? Also, the Perfect Blue, also did. Satoshi Kon. Yes, Satoshi Kon, that style of like, almost like so many people that the mass is bulbous and like is too big for the entryway. The Citadel is, I described it last time as being this kind of like collection of different eras. You can really feel that it was, they've not done a great job necessarily of trying to make it all feel like it's a cohesive, up-to-date castle. Parts of it are ancient and have been kept up from ancient times and some of that kind of character has remained. Other parts have like, you know, I've written down here that inside of the barracks and garage is a light, are light hanger, levitator gunships, right? Which are like some sort of like helicopter that flies on light. Like, instead of having blades, it kind of like produces a little beam of light that it then hangs on somehow. So that's like very far future weird shit. But also, you can see- This is like when you upgrade your PC, but you only need one component at a time. So you end up with a much nicer graphics card than you have a processor. But it's a castle and it's 5,000 years. And it's 5,000 years because they literally, there's part of this place that is like ancient dungeons. Part of this place is literally, the still literally has like the original burial tombs that the whole thing began as, right? So yeah, there's kind of a few parts of this. You can kind of see it as you approach. There are some people with guns up on the walls, guarding, you know, guards who are like, you know, watching down as everybody approaches. There are guards patrolling the whole place. But they seem like they're mostly keeping to the parts of the citadel you're not supposed to be in. Classic thing that happens in one of these situations. You're able to see that there's kind of this entry area, which goes into the foyer. That foyer is where you'll set up your stalls and where there's kind of like, you know, I guess high you'd be expected to do some fortune telling. Though you might need to see the sky, presumably, right? So maybe they will set you up on like an outdoor balcony. Like maybe there's a balcony on the rear of the foyer. Or actually, let's put it just like on the second floor. There's a second floor balcony that looks out down on the town, but also out on, I just got there being a lake that you could see last time. And that lake reflects the moons above, which lets you do your syzygy in like a better way, because you get to align moons that don't normally align. You could even align a moon with itself to make different characters and shit. There are different constellations and stuff, so a very powerful place to do this. So that's where you'll be set up. There's a foyer where there's like drinks and people carrying around appetizers and stuff like that. And that foyer is like the most kind of traditional, I guess you or I would look at it and be like, oh, this is like a well-kept 19th century foyer. There is a big feast room. And I think that the camera is moving through these places and you can introduce yourselves wherever you want when we're done going through the kind of walkthrough of this area. There's the big feast room, which is this, it's the newest structure here. It looks like it's ancient stonework, but sometimes someone will brush against some of the stone walls and it will flicker revealing like slick metal that's projecting the ancient stonework. And this place is like really surveilled. There are cameras and microphones and stuff everywhere. You overhear someone, you know, one of the, maybe one of the Kiliak Consortium guys leans into one of the guards or one of the people showing them around is like, what's up with all the microphones and cameras? And they say security to make sure the food isn't poisoned. We want to make sure everyone is safe. There is a ballroom, which is the oldest ring of the Citadel. The original structure was this vast ritual burial mound. And it still has that kind of like, that sort of shape of like, almost like a big hill instead of it being like a big, you know, hollowed out hill instead of it being a kind of hard edged, you know, big rectangular room. Guys, you brought up the burial mound again. I caught that the first time. I mean, that's what it was. It's a little creepy. But this is the place that's being set up for the ritual dance that's supposed to happen later, you know? And they keep talking about that. Ritual dance, burial mound. You know, no one is like, no one's really hiding that there is pig magic happening here. Right. Yeah. The guy just said pigs to me straight up. I mean, I did slightly bribe him, but it wasn't like he did not refuse to tell me about it. And, you know, again, I think that our kind of flowing camera or floating camera here picks up someone going, you know, maybe it's maybe it's the other contrapposto. It's Birch is like the ritual dance. And the other guy goes like, yeah, the ritual dance. And Birch, who is who's, you know, maybe driven by a fear of embarrassment, does not want to ask more and just goes, the ritual dance, of course. And then there's, of course, a residential like tower that is being well guarded. You can see that the series of guards is being organized and reporting up to Magistrate Castagon, who is the magistrate that you tricked, Donnie. And then there are, you know, stairs down into into whatever is the lower level, including, presumably, whatever vaults are down there, which is what Candide wants to take, wants to dip into, to try to steal this very, very valuable relic. Okay, I have a bad question. Sure. We have this whole thing as members of the circus, the Krinsky Family Circus and Traveling Curiosity. But we have our second other thing. I've been so circus-focused. What the fuck is our other thing that we do? As like a little group, your little team. Yeah, our little group here that we're in on, like, investigating stuff. Why do we do that? When you work together, you always hide your true intentions with spectacle. You know, you tell me. We didn't really talk about it last time. I feel like we did decide this. I feel like this is a known part of what we do, which is that we're like doing side investigation gigs. In my notes, I believe that the, you know, by the way I was planning around is that on top of being the cert, you're genuine about your circus stuff, but you are also like paranormal investigators effectively. Right. Okay. And this is what I would, I just want to be, I know that there's a reason that I care about this pig stuff and about the rituals. And in my head, I'm like, but I'm just some circus guy. Right. I know that there's another part to this, but I've been so caught up in the circus stuff. I just want to have that. Yes. Something more solid to wrap my interest in not just doing circus performing here around. Right. I think that it's flexible as to like, is it paranormal investigation? Is it treasure hunting? You tell me. Because the sentence you have makes it sound like you're doing sneaky stuff. The band sentence makes it sound like what you do is distract people and then get up to some shenanigans. I agree. And I think that for some traveling circus weirdos, both of those are valid bits of work. Stealing treasure and also paranormal investigating. That's what I would do if there was some paranormal to investigate on Earth. But we're not like hired PIs, like this is... No, not here. This is... But is like, is this a hobby for us? Show me someone I can offer my services to and I'll show you someone who's going to hire us as a PI. Yeah, but like we can do free, not free-lacy, but like, you know, what are the Scooby-Doo people doing? You know, they're not hired, they just sort of like stumble upon it. The Witcher doesn't wait for people to ask him to kill the Griffin. Yes, he does. That's exactly what he does. He doesn't always. He kills the Griffin and then asks for money. Sometimes. Sometimes he's like, Right. Yeah, that's what I mean. That's what I mean. There's a noob hag over here. I only go to the nearby town and see if anyone will pay me 13 copper to kill him. Yeah. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe he doesn't ever do it first and then ask for money after. He knows they won't pay him. Maybe this is just the fact of how a game works, that that's how things shake out for me while playing the game. Anyway, Ali, you also said something else that I forget. I couldn't hear what it was. Well, I was like, then are we just hobbyists in this way? And then we all know this about each other? Like, now I'm having questions. The answer is yes. But here's the... I have the answer for this, right? Which is, Ali, Hai dreams that they will witness the alignment of the moons and bring fame to their sponsors, right? Donnie wants to reunite with that which they were separated from. And Welloway wants to hear in whispers and shouts that entire worlds speak their name together. And so I think that there is a sort of like draw through those dreams towards the sort of investigations you do because those are the sorts or the sort of treasure hunts that you do because those are the sorts of things that are going to allow you to fulfill your dream generally speaking, right? You're right, we have not seen a scene of the three of you get together and say that. I think we are assuming because there's already a plus one band sentence, right? Which is part of the character creation. You have aligned yourself to those goals. We have a band. We wouldn't have a band sentence without a band. Here's a great way of thinking about it. Do you remember last episode, we listed the 12 things, 12 bad encounters that the circus had before? Yes. Oh, the sharks? Yes. What was the last? That was the 12th one. The G-Raffs. The G-Raffs, the giant sharks, the vampires, the space pirates, the various witches that we ran into and reporters and stuff. I didn't listen to this part. That's why I don't remember this. But those are things that could have all been episodes of your crew dealing with shit, right? The travel curiosity part of the- That is season zero. That's the season zero. Exactly. Yeah. So, yeah. Does that make sense? Does that help answer? No, yeah. Okay. I'm just highlighting the fan fiction opportunity of like- Hugely. Donnie and I turning a corner to the same urn to be like, what do you do here? Exactly. Yeah. 100%. So again, the places that we know exist are the foyer, the residences, the residence tower, the feast hall, the ballroom, the barracks and the garage are kind of their own little thing. And then just like the basement level, which we haven't seen what that looks like yet, but there is some sort of basement level. Where do we start to see y'all come in? Like when we see your characters, where do we first see you? And obviously kind of the outside, the big parade of people coming in, you know? Where do we first see the high well away and Donnie? Are you together? Are you just doing separate parts of this? I think Donnie has to be in a crowded area to sort of like blend. Yeah. I mean, are you- In that sort of way. Are you invisible? You can be invisible. You're intangible. Intangible isn't invisible. And always frighten those who perceive me suggests that some people don't- Always perceive you. We did Ghost Stuff Power, so that's probably how you're being invisible currently, right? Yeah. We did talk about this on the last one, and I asked if Donnie was visible and Art said not always. But I think in this scenario, especially in terms of the camera work, it's like a group of people and then there's another person who's sort of like, you look at the crowd and you count nine, then you look again, you count eight. Right. Right. And you're pretty sure it was nine, and it's sort of just like in terms of fright, and those are proscenium. It sort of like gives you a little bit of a shiver, and then you move on. Yeah. Yeah. Candide, who again is like a young teen. I don't know why this is the picture I have of them, but they have like one of those big floppy Renaissance hats. You know what I'm talking about? I feel like there's plenty of those. Yeah, but it's like I'll drop one in. I'll drop one in. The Wren floppers. The Wren floppers. I'm sure they have real names. Oh, yeah. Sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know exactly what you mean. One of the big floppy-ass. Yeah, a fucking Da Vinci hat. A Da Vinci hat. That's exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Oh, that doesn't give me... Doing a search for Da Vinci hat does not give me one. Oh, that's because they put me on Google Shopping. Get out of here. I don't want to be on Google Shopping. I want to be on Da Vinci hat. Yeah, kind of one of these. Yeah, kind of one of these colorful magenta and gold and absolutely has a fake mustache beard situation on. She is undercover right now, has big long robes on and is just pretending to be very short. And I think like gives you a big wink, Donnie, you know? We cut back over to the nine people who become eight people and then wink. Like we're both undercover right now, buddy. Why did these hats go out of style? We could bring them back. Yeah, it's time. We've now seen Donnie and Candide. How is, how is, how, where are you set up? Where do we first see you here in the mix? I think in the interest of not being stuck on a balcony for this whole thing. Sure. What I'm doing as people come in is like I'm having them write their names on like an interest form. So I can schedule readings for later. That's fun. So you're getting like a 30 minute experience instead of like a five minute experience. I love that. Yes. Or I don't know, maybe feel we're sitting down for a long time at the tent too, but that's negotiable. But yeah, so I'm scheduled like dinner fortunes. It gives me an opportunity to like steak people out. Yes. Steak dinner. Well, this whole fries thing, who knows? Yeah. And I think that, yeah, you're getting a good list of people. It's a mix of people you've seen around. The carnival part of the circus, but who have not like come over and done a reading there, because they know it'll be a little more quick and transactional there, whereas they want the big 30-minute reading. And then of course, it's people who live here at the Citadel, who've not come down at all. And you're going to note saying that Lord Bane himself would love, Lord Theragon Bane would love to have a reading. And I think when that name comes through, your boss gives you a look that's like, you know, that's the number one guy. That's the big guy. Where is this word coming from, like an assistant or like a...? Yeah, I think that, you know, there's a... an assistant comes, you know, or some sort of page, you know, for the royal family here, shows up with a list of people and they say like, and of course Lord Theragon Bane himself would love a reading. And we'll be happy to step away after the feast begins. Any time after the feast begins. And at that point, Curtis Curly Krinsky is like, mmm, sounds great! Right at the top of the list. Yeah, thank you. Give him a good one. That's not how that works. Give him a good... a big one. A big one seems attainable. Just make it... do what you're going to do, but bigger. Exactly. Wellaway, what is the first image of you that we see here at this big party in the Sylvia? Um, I would... I think that the... It feels like we've got, like, everyone doing little acts kind of separately as an appetizer to bigger parts of the feast. And I think that's really where Wellaway Shines is, like, pulling people towards close-up magic, card tricks, juggling. I had an idea for, uh, for Donny, if Donny wants to help me out with a trick. Of course I do. Um, I would love to do some magic juggling using an invisible Donny to, like, hover certain things at certain times to create, like, a very kind of bizarre effect that does not look skill-based, or at least doesn't... It doesn't look like it's physical. It looks impossible. Sure. And, uh, to sort of... I want to wow a crowd. Uh, maybe this is uncouth, but I got a hat on the floor, like usual. I don't know if you're supposed to put a hat on the floor at the, uh, at the, at, at the castle. Probably not. But certainly no one told me not to. He comes over and is like, what are you doing? Pick it up. What do you mean, what am I doing? I'm doing my act. You said you do my act. Put it on a little pedestal in front of you. Keep it off the floor. Put the hat on? Oh, okay. Keep it out just on the pedestal. Okay, sure. Yeah, that's fine. Hey, you. I put it on a pedestal. Page, give me a pedestal. Okay. Doesn't say jeez. There's no jeez in this setting. It says something else. But there could be another guy that begins with jeez. Yeah. There's various jeezus-like figures here whose names, I don't remember off the top of my head. I think Eola is one of them. Eola. It could be Geola and then we could say jeez. I like that it's Eola because you could put that at the end of anything. You know what I mean? Jeezus. No, it's not that. It's not that. It's not that. That's the one it isn't. All right. So yeah, do you actually want to do that? Do you actually want, do you have an intent here that you want to pursue to overcome the uncertainty? Yeah, fuck it. Why not? I'll get some more. I got some more money. And that's, is that your goal here? Is your, wait, sorry, because before you were like, I guess, yeah, that's what you're saying. Yeah, sure. I think, I think like dramatically, my goal should be to amaze and astound a growing audience of people to like, I think, to like sort of competitively pull them away from other bits. The fallout of that is, I think, money in the hat. Well, they're two different things, though, right? Because, because I, you know, you declare a dramatic intent, right? And I do think that there's something different between the thing you want being people pay you money and you become an attention-getting thing, right? Because people can pay you money in a lot of different ways. They might pay you money because they feel like, oh, right, the clown is here. Put money in the hat for the clown, dear, right? Whereas... I don't want that shit. That's what I'm saying. What you, so what you want is the big dramatic intent of... I want to amaze in a stand. You want to amaze in a stand. Yeah, okay, absolutely. And I don't think anyone here is going to try to counter you. So... Right, then I just automatically succeed with, I always bring joy with my antics. Yep, 100%. And people are clapping and cheering. And I think that you also kind of get through this, the sense that you do have a good sense of what the kind of layout of the evening is. There's this moment of people having appetizers, having drinks out in the foyer, in the hallways, meeting and greeting, sharing pleasantries and small talk. And then there will be, and maybe you get a little bit more here, you do get a sense that there are, the feast will kind of go all night, and you'll kind of go in and out of the feast room. Straight at the eggs, we knew it. Right, well, it's almost like there is a running schedule of events, except that once an event starts, it doesn't stop until the whole party is over, right? And that means that like maybe you don't get in the first round of feasters. You wait until the second, you know, the second bell, and then you go in there, and the first round of feasters moves on into the ballroom to dance, you know? So there's like staggered entrances, but no exit time. No set exit time. You can exit when it's time to exit. We'll let more people in. And then presumably, you know, there's kind of three big things. There is a big feast. There is a sort of like honor guard, you know, demonstration from the gunnests up on the balcony during the like between the feast first bell ending and the kind of start of the ball. And there are, you know, kind of demonstration of, look at our cool military bullshit. And then there will be the dance. And the dance will be, we'll start up and then again, we'll go into the end. So, so yeah, so we are at that point in the very beginning of that before any of that has started, though, the feast seating, you know, there's a bell, a pre-bell, what comes before a bell? What sound? A chime. A chime, a sort of soft chime that is played without any sort of intentionality, you know, kind of just goes ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. And then someone says, pre-seating is beginning for the first bell. And some people begin to usher their way or shuffle their way. They are ushered in to take seats at the end of the feast room. At this point, I've kind of laid out the situation. And you tell me what you're getting up to as the party continues. Well, first off, I want to thank Donnie for the help with the trick. I think that we blew the roof off this thing. Yeah, I think this is the... Yeah, it's a real spectral fist bump here. Uh, and if I had wanted money, I would have had to go the other way. So I can't pay Donnie anything. I think you got some money. But what's important is not how much money you got. It's that people were excited. You know, I think as a, like you said, as fallout from that, you got a little money. But you didn't get as much as you could have got. I'm going to split my loops. Can Donnie hold, Donnie, can you hold loops? You have a spectral pocket? Probably. You have a material pocket. Oh, I'm going to split my loops. You always wield a spectral power. That sounds like a thing that could be, you know, read your sentences broad while they're still broad. You know, that's part of how this game works. Until later, I have to drop all the money. So, and you know, I'm just going to have to give it to y'all at this point. Like, what types of actions, where do you start doing as the night begins to unfold? I think I am, like, sort of being Welloway's guardian is too strong, but like... Wing ghost. Wing ghost, there it is. Wing ghost is fun. That's a fun... Nice to have a wing ghost some nights, you know? Maybe a little unfair though. So if I was like flirting with somebody at the bar and they had a wing ghost and I didn't know that they had a wing ghost, I'd kind of feel like, come on, what are we doing? I didn't know you had a wing ghost. I would have brought my own wing ghost. We'd get a wing ghost mismatch. I was going to talk to you. Yeah, exactly. Look, I think the wing ghost understands the dynamic. I see. That's why they're the wig. Yeah, yeah, damn. I don't know, like, are we... Now I'm like so... I don't know our antics meter, I guess, after our conversation of knowing that... Because I feel like my... There's part of me that's like... It's gossip time, right? Yeah, I think there's a few ways to play this, right? Based on what you want to... I mean, you can do whatever the fuck you want, right? On my side of things, the way I'm thinking about this night is there's a party. The party is going to go the way the party is going to go. In the middle of that, Candide is going to try to sneak around and find this treasure with or without your help. At a certain point, I think that she will probably show up to Donnie and be like, hey, now is a good time for us to try to break into the basement and find this thing. Whether or not, when that happens, Candide has all the information necessary to succeed at that. We'll see, right? And then there's also like, what's happening here? Is there... Are there other people who have intentions? Like you said, gossip time high. What else could you learn about? Truly, you know, I don't have a big set structure for this campaign. I have things that are interesting that we could start pulling on and following. But I don't have a... You know, I don't know what session six is going to be, necessarily. You know, this is not a big linear arc at this point. And so if what you decided was, for some reason, despite wanting to kind of be a Scooby-Doo circus gang, and you wanted to get into the factional politics of this, we could do that. I don't think that that's where this goes. Which you have an invite to, because the wood people were like, hey, we have some lucrative jobs for you. Come to us. Totally. I think part of the like character impulse that I'm having, like the scenic impulse that I'm having is like seeing someone with a big weird ring or something and being like, I bet they know about the treasure. Or like the three of us talking about like what weirdos we saw tonight that like might be. I mean, we do know that there's someone with a big weird ring, in fact, who does know about who, I don't know if we know that he knows about the treasure. But actually, this is the type of dude who would do the thing that I'm about to do with him, which is Magistrate Castagon, the one who was freaked out at the carnival last time by Donnie, does have a big weird ring and sees you taking the scheduled appointments for future readings. I think he comes over to you immediately and is like, I don't have time for an appointment later. You'll read my fortune now? Which is only sort of a question. He started it as a demand, and then remembered he had to be a little bit polite to the guest. Sorry, who is this again? This is the magistrate who Donnie made the basketball shot go in. Yeah. Then the rumors start getting spread about him being scared, and being pansy, and all that other stuff. Remember? Yeah. Classic. Oh, he was scared of a ghost. Saw a ghost, pissed his pants. Pissed his pants. Yeah. Saw a ghost, pissed his pants. That's how it goes. Can I like, presuming there was a download about this, can I like, make a glance at Donny and well away across the room, and then be like, oh, of course, or? Yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah, for sure. Then he's like, do we have to go outside, or do your mystical powers work from anywhere? Outside, after the moonlight would be much, much preferable. I'll follow you then. Yes, please. Full uniform on. I think, you know, there is, I described these, this culture here as being like, like kind of tech wear, but also, you know, big collars, big like Renaissance era collars and, you know, golden chains. And I think there's like that thing of like, I don't know what these are called in fashion, where you'll have just kind of like slits inside of a piece of clothing, and then there would be like an interior texture that's different than the exterior texture. Do you know what I mean? Or there's like, like that's happening. And so again, like bright magenta, like black tech wear, then interior is like magenta, you know, slit interiors that are like a different, like a silk, you know? And yes. Very fashion forward for a magistrate. You know, it's a uniform. I don't think if left to his own devices, Magistrate Castagon would ever come up with this outfit. But thankfully, the Baines keep some sort of great tailor on staff to come up with cool uniforms. And so, yeah, follows your lead up to the balcony, which at this point is fairly quiet. You know, people are up here. I think maybe some people are taking in the view. It's really beautiful. Again, like the night sky here is filled with a thousand moons. And then the giant planet of Realis, which is this iridescent blue glowing, you know, orb. I guess here it's nighttime right now, which means you're not facing that Realis. Realis is behind you. But all of the many moons, which some of which are so far away, they look like stars, are up there. And so, perfect to do the sort of, you know, cisgy that you do. What are you doing here? And yes, big, big ring on this guy, as I, that's what you suggested. And I realized, yes, that's explicitly what Candide Morada saw on his finger. They told Donny that that ring was connected to this magical relic called the Skipping Stone, in some way, that might be a part of it even. Yeah, so I think that I lead him to like a, like one of those little tables with a velvet, like a tablecloth on it. And we sit down and in the interest of time, might I ask your intentions? I want to know if there will be any trouble tonight. I understand. And I think it's the same like, summoning situation, I guess, with like the staff against the floor. And then like, there's like a projection of magic in the sky of like the current placement of the moons or whatever. And then like, I think that what happens now is there's like a piece of parchment on the table. And it like, imprints it on to the paper. And then I like, bring out like a glass fountain pan or whatever and start like drawing like, here's the relevation of, you know, the moon of stillness to the crux versus... Right, right. All the astrology terminology here. Yeah, your glory is in, you know, the fourth door or whatever you have. Oh, yeah, your glory is in the fourth door. Yeah, no, I actually, this makes perfect sense. Are you using a sentence here to pursue a dramatic intent? Yeah, I think that it is... I always sense which prediction someone needs to hear. Oh, interesting. Trying to decide if this is going to be countered in any way. If anyone here would like to see you fail at this. I can think of one person, but it would be really rude for her to do that. You know, okay. I am going to... I should ask actually, are you using a token on this? You have a token, are you going to use it to boost it? Am I being countered or no? You have to decide that first. Okay, no. I believe that that's true. Let me double check if you have to decide. I believe you have to decide if you're using a token immediately. Again, we've just started this campaign. Let me walk through conflict. Declare actor intent, means and token. Yes, an actor, whether a PC or GM character, faction or environment declares dramatic intent and the means. Sentence, bond, dream or ephemera by which they wish to achieve it. The actor must also declare if they were going to discharge their token to temporarily increase the rank of their means. Then the next step is check for opposition. This is all on page of the books that y'all have. I believe you're in the playtest document. Is that right? Or are you in the document just called reality? You're in the document just called reality. This is on page 32. This is the kind of walkthrough of a conflict. Also, again, your intention is to... What is the intention of your outcome of this scene? What is the thing you want to happen from this scene? I think the thing that... I mean, the general thing is always like, oh, you don't give a good fortune. But I think, like, I want to see how he will react to the idea that it might not go well. Okay, interesting. When you say, Ali, you don't give a good fortune, what you mean is you don't, like, fluff a fortune to make it better? Is that what you mean? Not that you'd... Yeah, and my intentions are always to lead people to the truth of their destiny or whatever, but... But in this case, you're trying to learn something about him. Yeah, my id or whatever is, like, trying to figure out, trying to size this guy up. Yeah, yeah. So a success would be that you would leave this knowing something new about him that you could count on in some way. Okay, interesting. Fun. This is a really fun, because the way... So, yes. So, are you spending your token? It sounded like no. Um, I guess... No. No. No. Okay. Um, and again, the sentence you're using is... I only sense which prediction somebody needs to hear. All right. You are being countered by Aspen Contra Pasta, uh, who is countering with, um... Oh, there's some good ones here. What's the one that you already know? What's the one that you have written down for Aspen? You have... I always hear the future come. I always hear the future coming. I'm going to use a... This is fun, cause it's like, I want to use this. It would be fun to use this. I mean, I guess it would succeed, because it's a plus zero against a plus zero, so Aspen's that sentence would succeed. It's like, I want to use that one, cause it's the one you already know, but I don't really know how to use that one against you in that way, right? So instead, I'm going to reveal a new one. I'm going to reveal, I always recognize the sound of a lie. Hey. Well, I didn't say... I didn't... I haven't revealed who's hearing the lie here. So what's the... So the way this works, again, the sentence has been countered. Check reposition. If the actor is unopposed, they overcome the uncertainty. That's not the case. In this case, there was a counter actor. If the actor is opposed, the counter actor would answer their own means or whether they are using their own token and then you compare final result of means. The total reality of both means, including any increase from token discharge, are compared. The higher ranked means, wins, ties, go to the counter actor. Step 6, resolve outcome. They describe the moment that their intent comes to pass. If the counter actor, sorry, then describe the moment that the intent comes to pass. If the counter actor succeeds, they describe how the actor was stifled along with the repercussions of that failure. While the actor marks the countered means with parentheses, indicating that they cannot use it again during the scene. So I guess we're using the wonderful digital world here, so you can just straight up do a cross out of that sentence. I always sense which prediction someone needs to hear, and you can mark it by one, unless did you just do that? Did you already put the first mark in, or was that from last time? No, that was from our end of session. All right, so then go ahead and mark that a second time. And the thing that's happened here is you did not get your intent. You deliver a fortune. Tell me what that fortune is, I guess. And you don't hear the lie, but Aspen does. And the lie is not in what you say. The lie is in the response from the magistrate. So what is the fortune that you've delivered? I mean, besides your glory is in the fourth door, how do you interpret that for magistrate castagon? Yeah, I think the way that it gets interpreted is like, you know, like maybe you're in over your head sort of thing, or like the sort of way you can say to... I should have just written out a thousand fortunes or whatever. But I think it's the sort of thing of like, you know, there's, you know, there's danger in being ambitious, and like, dressed up in the sort of like, you know, it's good that, like, the crux is, like, the highest moon in your setting or whatever. Sure. You know, like, power is great or whatever. But like, you know, with that takes a risk and, you know, you're taking a risk. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Sure. So, yeah. So, then I think the thing that you leave this thinking you've learned something about Castagon, which is Castagon says, the best power is power spent. As if to suggest, you know, I think maybe even just says it, like if there's risk to be taken, you should take risk. I'm going to, I'm going to deploy a few extra guards tonight, you know, in the hall, or, you know, in the, at the extremities of the, of the Citadel. And this is not true, but you believe it is true. The thing you think you've learned about him is that when he hears that there is risk or that there is opportunity, he will respond with force. What Aspen has, has actually heard using her own oracling is, is that he's actually a coward. We get the kind of shot of her listening in to this still in the dark, you know, some moonlight catches her and we get to see her wooden face, her features not moving, but her head tilting and sort of understanding. As he walks away, she's realized he is a coward. And in fact, you've, you raising the idea that there is risk tonight has sent him into his, back to his quarters, where he will try to avoid whatever risk comes. And not, in fact, deploy more guards or do the thing that's supposed to happen. He is only in it for himself. A thing that Aspen now knows and will act upon. It's funny because what she learned was what the whole town already thinks, because he pisses his pants, he's not a ghost. Yeah, everyone knew he was a pissy panther. And, you know, but, you know, I will say that you leave it going like, oh, okay, I guess that guy, I guess that guy, you know, is a decent guard captain or whatever. I guess this is also an important thing to say, right? Like, realis is not about, as it works, it is not, oh, someone has, like, come into the scene and punched you in the face, and that's how conflict works, right? Conflict works on a narrative angle, more than it works in a direct confrontational way, right? And so as long as you can have an angle on the intent, you can counter something. So be wide as other characters try to do things. Be willing to jump in the way of it, even if it's, like, not as simple as, I jump in front of the bullet, you know? Wouldn't it feel less like this guy is a good guard and more like, you know, there's going to be trouble tonight if we pursue this thing? Sure, totally. I mean, you tell me the thing that the key is you didn't get the thing you wanted, which was truth about his intention, right? Or truth about who he was inside. So yeah, I think if that's your takeaway is, oh no, he's doubling down on guards, we gotta be extra careful. I think specifically on what sounds like the edges of the of the Citadel, then yeah, I think that makes perfect sense. Yeah, if you leave it going like, ah shit, then that's totally fine. Well away, as people begin to shuffle into the feast, are you just gonna keep doing your juggling act at this point? Uh, no, I think this is a great time to start figuring out this thing that I've heard from Donnie and the kid about the vault. How do you go about this? Um, let's see, how do you get someone to talk to a clown? Uh, there's two ways that I can think of, and one is to, like, try and find a important-looking person. I think this is the worst idea of the two. Try to find an important-looking person, impress them with some close-up magic, and then try to sort of, like, kind of accidentally rope them into a conversation about the layout of this place and the history of it, while, like, wowing them with card magic. I think the slightly better idea is to, like, basically take a break and to find someone who works here and strike up a sort of, like, oh, one of these fucking things, huh? Someone who has really no stake in anything other than, I just gotta, I just gotta clean these floors or whatever, who might just let something slip because they fundamentally don't care. Yeah. I think you see that same page who delivered the schedule of, or like, the first set of people who wanted to have their fortunes read is, like, has that look of being, like, sent on seven errands at once, and it does not look, you know, is taking a quick break, you know, maybe in a hallway that you're in. Oh, I have an angle. Or I could offer my help as a master balancer with, like, bringing all of this stuff that they need. If they've got seven different tasks. In less trips. I can be more than two extra hands. She, so yeah, let's do that scene. I think she has taken a breath. She's at a, there's, like, one of those, like, old water fountains that's built into the side of a castle that's, like, a fountain that's always on, you know what I mean? You know, a classic, like, I guess it's pretty obviously, this is, like, a big borehead coming out of the side of the wall here and it's, like, constantly, you know, there's a stream of water going into a little pool of water and that's, like, constantly just going through some pipes and stuff and she opens up, like, a little water flask to fill her flask with water and she's, like, too many things, too many things. Hey, you need a hand with that? I'm just on break. I was over there but I can, you look like you're struggling. I have everything under control. Don't tell anyone I was struggling. No, I won't tell anyone you're struggling. I could just see that you were struggling. You could see that I was struggling? Right, that's why I'm helping you. You're helping me? Right, I'm helping you. You're one of the entertainers. I couldn't ask for help from one of the entertainers. No, I make my own hours. So you're not working right now? I make my own hour. I was working, now I'm not working and then I'll be working again. But you're still dressed with the, you have the... This is going great. The mushroom hat? That's just, that's off-hours clothing for you? It's both, it's multifunctional. Well, I don't, I shouldn't. No, I'm sorry, I appreciate the offer, but there's no way I could ask one of the guests. That would get me in big trouble. I can actually start just grabbing this stuff and... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You're just taking it from her? I'm just taking it. She's pulling it away from you. Well, it's on the table, right? Is it not just on the table? Yeah, she's put it down on the little side table while she's filling up her water flask, I guess. You know, there are letters, there is a small, there is like a, something under a silver cloche, you know, there is a little parcel that's been tied. It's a bunch of different things. There is a butterfly that has been caught between two panes of glass that she's supposed to deliver somewhere. This is Paige Oblivia, her name is Oblivia. Okay, so, she's like, no, no, no, no, don't touch anything. If you break it, I'll get in trouble. Would it help if I was working and I just took all this stuff as part of my act? No. What? You're going to have to convince her to let you touch the things that she is in charge of delivering. She's just going to give a stranger the things that she has been told by the royals to deliver. Right. All of my moves, all of my class sentences, lead me to believe that the best way to convince her would be to just start doing it and convince her with how well I do it, not by saying, come on, you got to let me. You got to let me help. You tell me, for me, the uncertainty here is she does not want you to touch these things, which I think, by the way, is a completely legitimate. Totally. I agree. If you were at work and someone started touching the stuff you were bringing around your retail establishment even, you would be like, yo, stop it. Yeah. Also, you're literally a weird clown. I'm not a weird clown, I'm a cool clown. Bright red pants ending at the shin, button up long sleeves, subtly off white cotton shirts with red buttons, long soccer socks and a mushroom hat adorned with gold cufflinks and a gold bolo tie looped with a plain button keeping it together. You just described a cool clown. Yeah, I also don't understand what Austin's point is right now. Sorry. Yeah, that's just me. That's just my anti-clown agenda. Normal clown is the weird kind of clown. Sure. Honking nose and you know. Wait, your nose doesn't honk? No, I have a normal nose. I don't have a honk nose. We didn't do enough session zero on this, I. If I had a honk nose, it would be in look. But it's a sound. But you have to have it on to honk it. So it's kind of both. I can have a horn. I could carry a horn if it's the sound that you like. It's a separate horn. Yeah, we got a separate horn. Yeah. That's a good honk. Good light honk. Like one step above a bike horn. You know. Yeah. These are all in the clown zone to me, though. They are. Sounds pretty big. So what are you doing? This has got to be like this is like. Classic cartoon stuff of like like Mickey Mouse shit, of throwing all of the things into a big stack, like a wobbly tower of plates and cups. That some, you know, something that you'd, you'd walk to the kitchen as it like shook crazily a way that nothing ever could. And I guess manufacturing a situation where it's impossible to stop that. You'd have to, you'd have to disassemble the tower. And it's like, I can't touch that tower. Okay. Yeah. I see what you're saying. Although, I no longer feel like this is a pathway to learning something for this person. Yeah. This seems like, well, your intent was to get in her good graces, right? Right. Yes. Which I think the long-term plan of getting her good graces and then do a thought like, the idea that you were going to instantly in one conflict convince this person to tell you something secret about the citadel that she lives in is too big a mask, right? So this is a classic. You should break this down into multiple interactions. Multiple contracts, right? So this first one seems to be, try to get her to let you help with this stuff. Right. I'm either being quick and wit and bone or bringing joy with my antics. You're doing, I mean, what's your intent? And then maybe let's work backwards from that. Again, that's the step one here. Open play, we've done that. Declare actor intent and means and tokens. I think that my goal really is to defuse the horrible first impression where I offered help and then it was denied because she didn't want to get in trouble and I insisted by creating a really bad situation where everything could come tumbling down. It was sort of like a worst fear manifest. And I really would like to get past that first step. Okay. So that is step one. You're not spending your token? Question mark? You are. I'm going to spend this token. You spend the token. If she has a reality zero, I always bring the plates into the kitchen myself, I'm not going to fuck with that and have this thing come crashing down. Totally. Because. And so she does try to counter, in fact, with I always do what is asked of me. Sure. But you have plus one, which means you succeed on this. I'm going to add her to our NPCs list. I'm going to put this on the second page because I think that's probably where she will be. Again, her name is Paige Oblivia. And she has a plus zero sentence that I've now marked. I always do what is asked of me. And I think she breaks down into laughter and smiles. You have charmed her enough to not immediately call the guards on you or to yell at you or to refuse this opportunity entirely. And she says, Master Zani, Zani, Zani, Zani, Zani, Master Zani. I have to say I love you, James, but I have a duty to Lord Bane. And I have to say in my role as Royal Paige, I have to be the one who delivers these. And she is declaring an intention. And her intention is to get you to give up on this attempt to aid her. She is using the means I always carry my master's authority. She doesn't have a token to spend. She's not a player character. There was a point at which, believe it or not, in an early version of this game where I did also have tokens. It was a little tech-noir-y where we were passing tokens back and forth. It just got really unwieldy pretty quick. But part of me still wants an optional rule where the GM gets tokens for reasons like this, for moments like this. But it works. Yeah. I think it could go either way here. I don't right now believe that I have a bad move. Like, I don't think that listening to her and giving it all back or insisting that I carry it, I think that could both work out. But I will, which means, I'll do the not insane thing and give all of the stuff back. So you're not going to try to counter this? No, I'm not going to try to counter. Interesting. Okay. Cool. So yeah, her intent is to make you give up on this whole angle. You're good with that? Right. I'm good with that. I'm trying to make this a multi-step process of her liking me. Well, sorry, she likes you. At this point, she likes you. Her intent is to make you keep continuing to give up on trying to help her. And like, yeah, I guess that makes sense. Sure. Yes. Yeah. All right. Then then. Yeah. So so how do you respond to her saying that? I tell her that, you know, my japs are also part of her master's charge, but I will disassemble the tower. And I sort of kind of do like a reverse gag where I just sort of like throw everything back onto the table. Like again, an old cartoon where they set the table by throwing everything at it. Yeah. Back onto where it was. Yeah. She takes a sip from the water flask and then picks up the many objects back in the order that they were in originally. I have a question. Which is, again, new to the game. Totally. New game. Would the way to actually have done this instead of allowing her to win be to counter what she's saying with a statement that this was still the intended outcome of? You don't get to declare an intent as a counter actor, right? You could describe how things go bad for the other person or how they don't get their intent, but you don't get a big dramatic intent in the same way because you're not the actor. That's the benefit of acting is you would to declare an intent. What you would do is counter that sentence. If you successfully counter that, you would cross it off, which means she couldn't carry her master's authority in this scene going forward. So I could still do this. I could still counter with I am always quick and witten bone because disassembling the tower is quick and witten bone. She doesn't win by convincing me, but I still get to dictate the terms because I've won the contest. You get to say that she doesn't get what she wants. And obviously, the thing here is like she's not going to keep you from, you know, yeah, you do it. And in a way, you are going to get what you want here, right? Which is like, she says, fine, pick up half of it and keep me company. Right? Great. And again, importantly here, you reveal this is a plus zero sentence from her and it gets crossed out. She doesn't get to continue using it in this scene. The definition of a scene is obviously very broad. I think the scene for in this case is like, you're going to continue working on trying to get her to give you information. That's the scene. Even though we might cut away to another character, your scene with with Oblivia is going to continue here. Right? Can you get a token back as a counter actor? You cannot get it. There's only a limited ways to get tokens back in general. And no. But if I've responded to a problem through performative or public means. I don't think this was performative or I guess it's performative means. It's performative means. It was performative means. Yeah. But I was a counter actor. So that's the thing that I don't know. You were a counter actor. I think no. I think, you know, and I think that that's a thing. Let me double check them. Let me see if the text explicitly says it's been a minute since I've read the token section, discharging and tragic success, acting in line with an impulse immediately after they use a sentence, during a conflict in a way that's aligned with their sphere impulse or the current moon impulse. Yeah, I think it works. It does not say only when as written, it works. We'll see if it feels like that's too much. I actually, I thought you were going to go the other way and say it says acting. It does say acting. It does say acting. But then the full text of that section does not say, it just says immediately after they use a sentence during a conflict in a way that's aligned with their sphere impulse or the current moon's impulse, which as a reminder, the current moon's impulse here on OLD is find space, whatever that might mean. So if you act in a way around finding space, that might be part of it. This is great. I love using the token and getting it back right away. It feels great. It's like a yo-yo. It feels like a yo-yo. Yeah. And if it keeps happening, I may have to go like, hmm, maybe that's also a privilege of the acting. This is where I'm kidding. I actually don't like it. You hate it, actually. Great. All right. So now this clown, you're you, you are following Oblivia around, dropping off butterflies and whatever's under these silver cloches and packages. Yeah. Spinning plates on my finger like a basketball. Donny, what are you up to during all this? I think I got a little bored during this and I'm starting just search using intangibility. Yeah. Where are you headed? I'm going to just drop in the main chat the areas that we have talked about in our realest chat. All right. So if I was going to hide a vault, it would be in the barracks in garage or the under tunnels. Yeah, that sounds right. And if I was going to investigate a place as a ghost, it would be the under tunnels. That sounds right. So that's where I'm going to start. It's a great process of elimination. So what do you what's this look like? I think it's just like Donnie sort of drifts back from the antics going on and sort of just drops through the floor. If you can be intangible, you can go through the floor. For sure. Yeah. So what part of the above ground facility are you in when you do this? And I know that that sounds ominous, but it matters. I mean, wherever we just were. I guess you were in the foyer, right? Or I guess, who is we? You and Wellaway. You were where Wellaway and this page were. Yeah, you were in one of these little side hallways. I know that's a perfectly fine place to drop down nice and safe. And you dropped down into a part of it where literally, you see this effect of this whole place seems to have, of the various eras being blended together. You were in the dungeon. This is the dungeon of the castle. Sure. But it's being used as storage. And it's being used for like big cardboard boxes, you know? And they just like didn't take the bars down, you know? They did take down the like hanging chains and the manacles and stuff. But like, you know, you drop down into the basement and it is 100% a dungeon cell. I mean, you look down one of the hallways and like the dungeon cells, you know, stone walls give way to like a Star Trek hallway, you know? It's truly where one wing ends, the next one begins. You get the sense that the entire kind of upper level has a lower level built around it. And you get the sense that there is maybe more down here than there may even be above. And in this, I remind you that one of the moon sentences here for Olyd is, Olyd warrens and tunnels always offer secret ways through, which anybody can use, including, you know, Olyd's moon itself can confuse you perhaps via that sentence. But for a token spend, you can also use it yourself to achieve something, you know? Though of course, you are just an intangible ghost who needs a tunnel. You just walk through dirt, I guess. What's that experience like for you? What's it like to be? It's probably not great. Yeah. Do you experience being, do you feel being moved through dirt and solid matter and stuff? It probably feels fuzzy, right? A ghost must sort of exist as like an electrical impulse, right? Let me tell you, I don't know. But I believe you- This is a place with demons. We have demons here. There are demons here. But I'm giving you the pen. You tell me what it feels like, truly. Yeah, I think it feels fuzzy. I think it feels like a wall is one thing, but feet and feet of rock slash dirt is something else. Yeah, I think it feels like the connection starts to feel a little vague. Yeah, I like this. This is fun to me. Okay. What are you doing down here? I think it was, by the way, clearly an uncertain thing. Couldn't a person go through solid ground? You've solved that with having the power to be intangible. We did not need to go through a whole conflict situation on that one. No one was trying to counter you from being a ghost in this scenario. No one even knows you're here at this point, at least. And the rock doesn't have purpose. Correct. The rock had no intent. Though, actually, the moons do sometimes have intents, right? The moon is a being in some strange way here in Realis. And the moon can say, I am going... If one of the moon sentences here was like, Ollid always confuses those in search of truth, I could have used that sentence to counter you, you know? Sure. Um, I don't know how to search for a vault. Yeah, are you just looking around? Are you just... Yeah, if walls aren't a concern, I think you could cover space pretty quickly. Sure. Yeah. And like locked doors don't stop you. So if you come to an end of a hallway, for instance, you slip through the doorway in a way that a normal person would have to... Not that you're not normal, but you are a ghost. You are a specter. Well, it's, yeah. Some sort, yeah. Atypical, certainly. Hey, do you have a way of countering the sentence? I mean, I guess I'll just say it this way. Someone is using a sentence. That sentence is, I always sniff out enemies of the consortium. Would you like to counter that sentence? Because you're not alone down here. Yeah, I would like to counter that with, I always frighten those who perceive me. Oh, fun. So in fact, you are... Setic Crowley is down here. This is the Killiad kind of... I never finished writing the exact thing I wanted to write down. It's just in brackets here. So you may recall, Jason Getsonia Jr. is Killiad's Senior Integration Analysis Officer, and I just wrote down Killiad Senior Killer for Setic, and killer is in brackets. I didn't ever come up with a fun... This is the bodyguard. This is the bodyguard, exactly. One of them looks like they go to the gym, one of them looks like they actually kill people. Yeah, exactly that. I did not come up with a euphemism for Setic's role, so I'm just going to drop it in there. Killiad Senior Killer, who, again, sniffs out enemies of the Consortium. And in this case, you're an enemy because you're both on the hunt for the same thing. And in this case, you have countered this sentence quickly, which I'll knock it out here. What's this look like? Maybe you've come through one of these doorways and seen this person looking around, trying to secure the under... What are they called, these things in the list I just gave you? The under tunnels? The under tunnels. The under dark is where the drow live. It's different in D&D. Oh, OK. So tell me what this moment looks like as you counter this sentence. It depends how slapsticky we want to get with this. I have an opinion. But I'm seeing an Abed and Castello meet Frankenstein beat. If they didn't do that, they should have. Is that real? Because that could be real. The Abed and Castello meets Frankenstein is real. OK, it sounded familiar. As a comedy classic, you should watch it just for the like beats of Castello being afraid of the mummy. OK. The like, the like and like can't, can't talk and like starts like pantomiming the thing that he saw. And this is what's happened to Settic Crowley, who goes running back in the other direction. I mean, like, you know, tries the locked door. It's locked. I guess it doesn't make sense because you came through that locked door. It's not reaching through you. I think, importantly, does not... You're just a ghost down here. And I think what Settic's taken from this is... And I say this because Settic did not get the... You know, Settic's intent was to find... You know, it's kind of just like what the sentence says, right? Which is sniffing out enemies of the Consortium. In this case, like, identifying anybody else who's also hunting for treasure down here. So does not get that, right? Nevertheless, saw you. And so I think what Settic's takeaway is, oh my god, this place is haunted with ghosts. This place has ghosts here. They're not rivals of the Consortium. They're not people also doing treasure hunting. So Settic flees upstairs. And I think as you continue to search down here, Donnie, hi, you very quickly pick up on some gossip as the feast starts to get underway. People are saying there's some sort of haunting, that this place might be haunted with ghosts. Probably not though, right? I don't know. That's what's happening out here. So yeah, you still you continue to have free reign downstairs from at least from rivals from these other factions. And I do want to know actually really quick, hi, now that you've done your one early fortune, have you just reintegrated into the mass of people for dinner? Where are you at? Yeah, I guess if like people... So to ask you how many courses dinner, which I don't think is helpful. But I think that I like maybe I didn't... It's exactly as many as we need, right? Exactly. I think that I can make the decision for myself and say, I've slotted myself like an hour mingle time, and then I will probably have to get back up to the balcony. Right. Because Lord Bane is going to want his fortune told during this early point. It's going to be after dinner. It's like a dessert. You know, it's going to run out. Yes. Yeah. You don't want to interrupt people's meals. So I think that I... Can I find Welloway? Yeah. I think you just bump into Welloway for sure. Or not bump into, because Welloway is helping carry stuff. I don't want to drop anything. But yeah, you totally run into Welloway who is hanging out with one of these noble pages, one of these royal pages, helping her to deliver stuff across the Citadel. Yeah. I don't know if this is like our additional breakaway and sneak off time. But I feel like... Breakaway piastre. Huh? That's my brother. Oh my god. But I feel like that's my impulse, right? Is to get the gang together, get downstairs. Right? Yeah. I think getting the gang together sounds fine. I mean, it also sounds like maybe someone's about to hear that there's someone downstairs. I mean, you've heard this. If someone comes running. I have. That was the... Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Right. Sure. So I guess we also have heard that. Maybe it's a good excuse. Like, we didn't come down here to steal anything. We heard that there was a ghost. I mean, is this how... Sorry. Hi. Is this how you open with Wellaway and Oblivia when you run into them both? You say, oh my god, I heard there was a ghost. Yeah. I think I walk over and I set my step on the floor and I say, Wellaway, I need you for something urgent. See, Wellaway, I drop all the places. Oh my god. No. Do you? No, you don't. No, no, no, no, no. Just being horrible. I would decide that I have magic. It could lift them in this moment is what I would do. I mean, you have the power of the moons. That's great. It could be gravity magic. That is great. Yeah. Sure. Don't undersell yourself. I think Oblivia is like, well, you've served your duty with me well away. You should go on and help your friend, the fortune teller. Nice to meet you. I am Paige Oblivia, by the way. She says to you, hi. I got to put these plates somewhere. I got plates, right? Yeah, I got plates. It's a bunch of stuff. It's not just plates. Some of it's plates, some of it's letters. Plates, parcels. Parcels, comma, et cetera. Miscellanea. Yeah. Yeah. I apologize, but it seems there's a disturbance that we must tend to. A disturbance? Magistrate Castigon must be made aware. What sort of a disturbance? Yeah, what sort of a disturbance? I'm making a face. My intention is to beckon these spirits with the call of the wisdom of the moons, but there has been some talk of some phantasmic activity. Remind me, which door is the moon? Right now, 40 minutes ago or whatever, the Crux was in four. It was in four, was in four, the Glory was open. Uh-huh. Right. Oh, that moon, not this different moon. Different moon, yeah. Power of a different moon. Phantasmic. Oh, that power. Says Oblivia, confused by the notion that there could be ghosts about. That could interfere with the whole night. No, no, no. I feel, as I've demonstrated, there's nothing I want less than something that interferes with the whole night. So maybe I should be going. To deal with the phantasmic power? Well, if High thinks that I could be of some use, then I'll do my best. Where was the ghost? Did you see it? Asking you. You, hi. Me, you? Hi. Oh, okay. No, no. I was instructed by... Could I point to someone? Yeah, 100%. Yeah. This is such a competent lie. But I feel like I would point to one of the guards or whatever. Yeah, sure. And be like, well, they do. I'd be able to take care of it. Totally. I think that she is mostly... She seems concerned about how the night could go bad because of a ghost, that there seems... And in a way that's beyond just... In a way that's in some ways more matter of fact than you might think, right? She's not like, ghosts? Ghosts exist? She's more like, oh my god... Ghosts again? No, no, no. More like ghosts will spoil the broth. You know? More like... Oh, we can't... The broth. Well, you know, the way that if someone is like... Or like, oh, my hair will get frizzy because it's humid out. Like a sort of combinatorics. She doesn't want anything ruining the night. Right. Exactly. And a ghost, ghost spectral phantasmic power seems like it could interfere with the night. You know? Right. It's not a safety thing or a scared thing. It's like, uh-oh, the cake is underdone. Right. Exactly. Which suggests that maybe she knows something about other powers that are in perp, you know, in act... Other things that spectral powers could be interfering with. Right? It's like if she said like, oh, the spectral powers could interfere with the radio waves, then maybe she knows some shit about radio waves. I'm only trying to flag that, you know, your original plan here, Wello, was to learn something, and now you're leaving this person who you were trying to learn something from before learning anything from them. And maybe there is more you could learn from before you bounce, you know? Yes. I see that. Maybe that's fine. We can just get to the underbelly action or whatever, but you know. Well, I think there's a way of getting there of sensing that anxiety and asking her what she's nervous about. Totally. Yeah. I could tell Hi to move on, and it sounds like Paige has some information, and maybe we would be better served by figuring out what it is that she is thinking. I'm just laying the stage. You tell me what you do, you know. That's what I do. So you ask Hi to leave and give you a second with the Paige, with Oblivia. Yeah. Sorry, is Paige her job? She's a Paige. Oh, okay. Her name isn't Paige Oblivia. She is a Paige. Her pa-gle is Paige. Yes, exactly. Yes. Could be both. Could be both. It's not Paige. Her name is Oblivia. Okay. So what is it about the ghosts? You know, most people don't, you know, most people don't have any strong opinions about ghosts other than I got to get away from the ghost. It'll just ruin the whole festival, the whole festivities. Why could a ghost do that? Well, the pigs could be scared. The way that they, you know, partake could be, the meal could be spoiled. That's a great, that's an interesting question. How do the pigs partake exactly? Oh, they, they love the festivities. They take in the festivities. Can you define take in? Well, no, not, they absorb the joy. They absorb the joy. And is the worry that the ghost, they can absorb some bad ghost energy? People are scared. Maybe they won't be so joyful. Sure. If people are frightened, that could ruin the soil. What happens when the pigs absorb the joy? The soil gets better. No, I mean, what happens to the people? They, nothing? What do you mean? It's a matter of atmosphere, is it not? And in the big feast hall, all of the cameras zoom in in this moment, as people begin to eat. And all of the strange surveillance technology begins to feed somewhere down below, and maybe down below a place that you were getting closer and closer to, Donnie, live streaming feed of people devouring the delicious meals that are being served to them.