You're the owner of a small business, which means you're also the tech guy, and HR, and personal assistant, and head honcho, and intern. You could use another pair of hands, like the experts you'll find at Verizon Small Business Days, April 21st through 27th. Get a free tech check, special deals, and more. Call 1-800-483-4428, or visit verizon.com/smallbusiness to book your appointment. Verizon Business. For most investors, the key is to stay put, stay grounded, deep breath, keep the seatbelts on, and we will help sort through the current environment, because into this uncertainty and volatility is tucked opportunity. On WealthTrack, a voice of calm among uncertainty. Funding provided by ClearBridge Investments, The Fair Home Foundation, First Eagle Investments, Bill Miller, Baird, Strategus Asset Management, Research Affiliates, Royce Investment Partners, Seafarer Capital Partners, and Women Investing in Security and Education. Hello and welcome to this edition of WealthTrack. I'm Consuelo Mack. How does one describe the action in the financial markets in recent weeks? Two headlines from the Wall Street Journal within days of each other say it all. First, on April 4th, Trump's tariffs wipe out over $6 trillion on Wall Street, an epic two-day rout. Then on April 9th, this is a great time to buy, Tariff Pause Sparks Historic Rally. Since President Trump announced his across-the-globe Liberation Day tariffs on April 2nd and has modified them several times since, that has been the story of the markets. For a program like Wealthtrack that focuses on long-term investing and tapes interviews in advance, this is a challenge. We deliberately focus on guests who have outstanding track records through many economic market and political cycles, and we ask them to share that perspective on current conditions. Although today's discussion, taped on April 11th, could be affected by yet another development, the goals and approach of this week's great investor guest will not change. She is Mary Ellen Stanek, Chief Investment Officer Emeritus of Baird Advisors and President of the Baird Funds. Stanek was honored with the Morningstar Award for Investing Excellence in 2022 as Outstanding Portfolio Manager for her disciplined and risk-aware approach, thoughtfully navigating various market environments, and impressive absolute and risk-adjusted returns in her 20-plus years at Baird. She has been named one of Barron's 100 Most Influential Women in Finance for several years. Baird is a Wealthtrack sponsor. I asked Stanek what she is telling clients about the Trump tariff turmoil. So it's an interesting time right now. There is a lot of volatility, much uncertainty. The administration is unleashing some very substantial potential changes in policy and direction. And so that's causing investors to try to readdress and take note of all that is happening day by day, and in some cases, hour by hour and market by market. And our advice to people as it is always, and we've been doing this now for decades, is to always step back to be a long-term investor, to really go back to your reason for investing. What are my goals? What is this pool of capital, my portfolio, designed to do? And what are my needs? Has that changed? And certainly, you incorporate current information. But for most investors, the key is to stay put, stay grounded, deep breath, keep the seatbelts on, and we will help sort through the current environment. Because into this uncertainty and volatility is tucked opportunity. And that's how we're laser-like focused on helping investors sort through this, managing risk carefully, always confirming liquidity for investors should they need it. And then where are the opportunities? And being able to take advantage of them. How has the bond market changed again since April 2nd, since the Trump tariff announcements, which are also changing seemingly daily? But how have the bond markets changed? What's interesting, if you look just at the first quarter, as investors looked at the first quarter, it was a pretty good quarter for bond investors. Core portfolios produced 2.5% to nearly 3% total returns. That income or yield that's been on the portfolios across the yield curve was cranking through to total returns. Then as you suggest, with some of the announcements, beginning with the tariff announcements, and then subsequent additional reaction or counter moves, you've seen this volatility unleash. As you know, we have both a taxable line up of bond funds, but also municipal line up as well. And those two markets often move in conjunction with one another. On the longer end of the curve, intermediate to longer end of the curve, they have decoupled somewhat. So that's seven to 30 year maturities. Where it's most profound is really in the 20 to 30 year part of the curve. And in a lot of ways, it's been a perfect storm right now. Seasonally, this is tax time. So investors often will be needing liquidity out there. Municipal bond portfolios or funds or ETFs. So they'll be withdrawing funds. Dealers has been pretty good issuance in the municipal market year today. So dealer inventories are pretty heavy. You're seeing some force selling. Sometimes leverage players have to bring leverage down into these kind of environments. ETFs with the attraction, if you will, of immediate liquidity end up being, in a lot of ways, force sellers into this kind of market environment and can put additional pressure on the market. So when you look at it all and then you add on these very significant potential changes in whether it's tariff policy, whether it's geopolitical relationships, and how they're affected by all of that, how all of this feeds into basic economic assumptions in terms of what do businesses do in here? What do individuals do? What does this mean for the employment market? So through all of that, it just creates a lot of uncertainty and potential in the short run, volatility, as people are trying to effectively rebalance and sort through it all. Again, through that is opportunity, and we're seeing when markets decouple from usual relationships, we go in and analyze carefully, is there something fundamentally that is different that we need to incorporate? Or is it, you know, as much a function of short-term selling pressure? So what do you think? How are you answering those questions? So certainly there are plenty of question marks about what trade policy and tariffs are going to potentially do to the economy, geopolitical relationships, the rate of inflation, what the Fed does, you know, on and on and on and on. That said, when you see markets decouple like this and particularly have such extreme moves in a very short period of time, we think that it creates some opportunity. And you're going to hear when you ask me later about my idea. So what is your one investment for a long-term diversified portfolio? And given all of the uncertainty and the turmoil that you're talking about in the market, and this is, we're talking on April 11th, so things can change pretty rapidly. This is a long-term one investment recommendation. Do you dare make one? Particularly for high-rate taxpayers, it's hard to ignore the relative value and the tax-adjusted yields available in that intermediate to long end of the municipal curve. We, people talk about ratios between treasuries and municipals. You're seeing them in that 80 percent range to all the way out to about 96 percent on the long end of the curve. That's unusual and quite compelling. And you do not have to go down a lot in credit quality. A well-diversified basket or portfolio can deliver that. With aging populations, typically you start seeing investors tilting more towards predictable income. I think, and we think, that's a compelling idea for investors to at least consider and talk to their advisors about. If, in fact, the municipal bond yields are going up, that means their prices are going down, which, again, municipal bonds, and you're talking about investment-grade quality municipal bonds, that's unusual in and of itself, right? Yes. And I think it goes back to that perfect storm that we think is happening. We always look at the fundamentals behind a credit, behind a sector, behind a market. We also look at what's called the technicals, and the technicals are simply paying attention to buying and selling, and the motivations on the part of certain types of investors. And so it's creating, we think, in the short run, this relative relationship between taxable and tax exempts that favors heavily the tax-exempt side. In a lot of ways, on the long end, you're getting the tax-exemption almost for free. One of the things that you've told me in a previous interview is that even though what you do as portfolio managers is that you do it security by security, sector by sector, that's how you build up your portfolios. But you also said it's very important to consider kind of the macro environment that we're in, and you described it as putting together the pieces of a puzzle. What is the puzzle looking like? On the bigger picture side, we stay duration neutral or interest rate neutral to our benchmarks, each portfolio's benchmark. And we don't try to outguess the short-term direction of rates and try to move duration around in our portfolios to add value. We believe in the efficiency of the bond market or segments thereof. And so we neutralize that decision in a lot of ways. We daily rebalance to keep that in line. But you're right, we build portfolios from the bottom up. But as we're doing that, we have to have an overall assessment in view of the macro environment. And particularly it informs our risk posture overall. And so what do I mean by that? How strong is the economy? How resilient is the economy? What are the underlying sectors look like? What are the valuations? You know, what are we being paid to take on that risk? What's the liquidity in that sector look like? So we look at all of those. And then one of the really important things that we pay attention to, what are those technicals? Meaning, what are the buying and selling pressures in a subsector or the market overall? And right now, we have, for the last few years, seen very substantial flows into bonds. And that makes sense given, again, the aging populations, not just here in the United States, but through most of the world. It's not just the Western world, but it's most of the world. And again, in the first quarter of 2025, we saw very strong flows coming in. And we expect that to continue. One thing that has us a little more cautious, and reassessing, is what kind of flows will happen, and would they potentially become net outflows, or more selling pressure on the part of global investors into our dollar-denominated bond market? And has anything changed? Certainly, there's a lot of rhetoric around, with these potential tariffs, what does that mean for relationships? Will you still see the same capital flows, including financial capital flows? And in the last several days, we're wondering if global investors will continue to invest at the same rate they have over the last several years, or will they look for other opportunities, whether it be German government bonds, or whether the Japanese and some of the Asian investors will look elsewhere. So, that is an important dynamic. And then if you get a retaliatory move on the part of any of the foreign central banks, you know, to either go on a buying strike or actually start selling treasuries, that could in the short run put some pressure on. So, we're watching that closely. There's a lag to actually getting confirmation of activity happening. But our sense is that there has been selling pressure, particularly on the long end of the curve. Overall, we step back and we go, irregardless of all this volatility, the bond market offers good value. Yields are attractive. There is a flurry of initiatives that have been announced by the administration that creates this cloud of uncertainty. Tariffs, we haven't talked about. Doge and the activities to cut the federal workforce. What that means ultimately to wage rates and employment opportunities. What's the new global order look like? Not just politically, but financially too, with all the interdependencies. So as you pull it all together, you have forces that continue to keep bonds in this trading range, where income or the yield available on bonds is attractive and offers pretty good value, particularly under this uncertainty. Industry flows domestically, particularly, we think will remain strong, and growth on the economy will probably be slower than it otherwise would. We haven't talked about the consumer. Remember, the consumer is two-thirds of GDP. And what does this do for the consumer? Even very healthy consumers with healthy balance sheets, do they just pause? Do they just slow down? What are you seeing, Mary Ellen? I mean, we're early on in this process. I mean, consumer confidence, for instance, and business confidence have both declined recently. Yes, and a lot of the soft survey data is telling us people are turning cautious. We will see whether that is actually flows through into the hard data over the next month or two. One thing that we are seeing is the employment market has changed. Just in the last several days, I've talked to a couple of May graduates coming out, undergrad or graduate school, attractive resumes, and they're finding that opportunities are being put on pause and on hold. And so it's a less certain job market. We haven't talked about the Fed. Yeah, so let me ask you about the Fed. They've been holding their position, and despite all the jawboning or anything that's posted on social media directed to the Fed chair or the board, they are looking at it all. And one thing that they're concerned about is the potential for stagflation, where economic growth slows, but yet inflation stays higher or starts rising. And remember, we've talked about this before. As much as current inflation rates and what's happening currently matters, it's really what inflationary expectations are, that the Fed is trying to discern and anchor. What they don't want to do is see those inflationary expectations rising on the part of market participants, businesses, individuals, because that starts cranking through and having real impact. So our sense is unless the markets get very difficult, the Fed is going to try to continue to be deliberate, assess data and will tend to go slower on dropping interest rates than maybe the administration would like. For bond investors, again, let's go back to that. What that means is you collect a higher yield for a longer period of time on your portfolios. So that's why we come back to its good value. We look at our yield advantages on our portfolio. We run well-diversified liquid investment-grade portfolios, and they all have attractive yield advantages or additional yield on them relative to their benchmarks. Some of them are now getting on the higher end of our historical averages. Again, we think that's pretty telling. That foreshadows potentially additional total return value that will come through to the investor. But in the meantime, keep the seatbelts on. Maybe put a shoulder harness on some days. But for long-term investors, stay focused. And the final thing I would say is, in these periods of volatility, they're great gut checks for investors to say, was I comfortable with the risk level I had on in my portfolio? Was I comfortable with my asset allocation? Did I have enough liquidity available? Could I stay pat? I might not like the headlines. I might be upset by the volatility, but I was able to be patient investor in long-term. And if through this bout of volatility, this too shall pass at some point, and if you weren't comfortable, or you had to sell into this, that should cause you to re-evaluate and think about is really this the best asset allocation or the best vehicles for me to be invested in? One investor did say to us, you're my sleep insurance, don't ever forget that. And thought that we were going to be offended. And I said, that's a badge of honor. That is what you want from your bond manager, predictability, consistency. When the storm clouds roll in, we've used this analogy before with you, that we try to run all weather strategies. As we like to say, nobody wants their bond portfolio to create the drama. I have to ask you about treasuries, their status as a safe haven, they're very volatile. Is the US. Treasury bond note still a safe haven? What's going on there? We think so, but you're right. A lot of people are talking about it, and it's much the fundamentals of the US government and looking at it, you know, as you would analyze any credit, but also the US and our position in the world. And both the size of the dollar denominated, in this case US. Treasury market, and both the predictability, the size and the liquidity that our markets have historically offered. And in the last several days, you are seeing both the dollar under pressure, US. Treasury yields rising, bond prices falling, and US equities falling, all, you know, at the same time. And that's pretty unusual. Because usually when the equity market does what, you know, the big sell-offs and the volatile moves, you know, there tends to be a race to those safe havens. And US treasuries usually are right at the top of the list, not just in the US., but worldwide. And so, again, I don't want to take a few days and say it's a trend. Some of it may also be foreign investors reacting and trying to send a message about, this isn't just about, you know, trade policy. There are other implications. And I think that's what investors are trying to sort through as this plays out. The other thing is just the speed and the size and the number of announcements. And markets can handle a lot. They can handle a lot. And investors can handle tough news. What's usually hardest for investors and markets is the uncertainty. Right, but for you as a seasoned bond manager and the team that you work with, both on the taxable and the non-taxable, the muni markets, are you saying that this is a time where you're finding many more opportunities being created? We started the year more cautious and have plenty of liquidity and as we call it dry powder because we saw spreads get very tight. And we thought that was there would be better opportunities. As this is all happening and I mentioned the difference between the long end of the tax market and the tax exempt markets, when we see things like that happening that are so unusual, we will go in and start acting and we are. We are nibbling, as we like to say, in the corporate bond market, where spreads are starting to widen out. So we are starting in the securitized market with very high quality asset backed and mortgage backed securities. So we always will, we have liquidity in our portfolios for primarily two reasons. One is for us as portfolio managers to be able to take advantage when markets do create opportunity. And we're always thinking about what if the end investor needs the liquidity, what if it's a hospital system, a healthcare system that needs it for a capital project or wants to rebalance their portfolio. They need to be assured that we're going to have the liquidity for them, because that's why you own bonds in the first place. And just quoting, when you receive Morningstar's Award for Investing Excellence, they noted your discipline and risk-aware approach, thoughtfully navigating various market environments, and you are certainly navigating a very difficult market environment. So thank you so much for taking time off out of your very busy day and joining us here on WealthTrack. We really appreciate it. Always a pleasure. Thank you so much. At the close of Every WealthTrack, we try to give you one suggestion to help you build and protect your wealth over the long term. This week's Action Point comes straight from one of Mary Ellen Stanek's objectives. It is add some sleep insurance to your portfolio mix. Sleep insurance means an investment that you don't lose sleep over. For some people, it is cash and its equivalents. For others, it is short to intermediate term US treasuries that they intend to hold to maturity. For others, it is a dependable bond fund with a solid and steady track record. For others, it is gold, which can act as a portfolio stabilizer, especially in times of turmoil. And for someone close to retirement, it might be a deferred income annuity, or for a retiree, an immediate income annuity, and both should be issued by a top quality insurance company. Whatever your preference, adding some form of stability to your portfolio can help you sleep better at night. Next week, top-performing value investor Susan Byrne, founder of Westwood Management, joins us with her enduring approach to unsettling times. Don't forget to follow us on Facebook, X and our YouTube channel. Thank you for watching. Have a delightful Easter weekend and make the week ahead a healthy, profitable and productive one.