This episode is brought to you by Amazon Business. We could all use more time. Amazon Business offers smart business buying solutions, so you can spend more time growing your business and less time doing the admin. I can see why they call it smart. Learn more at amazonbusiness.com. But I think this cycle, it's not even in the 8th or 9th inning Consuelo. I think the economic cycle is going to next innings. David Rosenberg is focused on his outlook for the economy and his contrarian views on inflation. Funding provided by ClearBridge Investments, the Fairholme Foundation, First Eagle Investments, Bill Miller, Baird, Strategus Asset Management, Research Affiliates, Royce Investment Partners, Seafarer Capital Partners, and Women Investing in Security and Education. Hello and welcome to this edition of WealthTrack. I'm Consuelo Mack. We are delighted to welcome back for our annual Deep Dive interview, the influential thought provoking and tell it like it is economist David Rosenberg. David is president, chief economist and strategist at his independent economic consulting firm Rosenberg Research, which he founded in January of 2020. Before moving back to his native Canada, he made his mark and reputation on Wall Street as the chief North American economist at Merrill Lynch, where he was consistently ranked an All-Star Analyst by institutional investors. His daily Breakfast with Dave newsletter has long been considered a must read by retail and institutional investors alike. In part one of our interview, we discussed his recent decision to rethink his bearish position on the US stock market and consider the bullish case. You can see his conclusions on wealthtrack.com. This week we are focusing on the economy, starting with his contrarian view that inflation is not going to be a problem. I don't think the Fed is going to have to raise rates again to get inflation down. I think that inflation was an 18-month phenomenon. It was pernicious. But in the overall annals of economic history, 18 months is pretty transitory. We went from zero after the pandemic, the peak of the pandemic to 9 percent for one month. When you look at most underlying measures of inflation, they're running below 3 percent. People think that there's inflation because the price level is so high. So people talk about that the price is still punishingly high. But that's the reality of the situation. Inflation is the rate of change of prices. It's not the level. You know, we revere Paul Volcker, right? Paul Volcker is remembered for slaying the inflation dragon. He did not slay the price dragon. Prices never went down in Volcker's seven-year tenure. He just took 12 percent on inflation rate and grounded down to 4 percent. But you see, because New Zealand in the 1980s instituted a 2 percent inflation target, and every single central bank thought that was a great idea, we're going to target 2 percent. So, God forbid, if you go from 9 to 3, but you're not yet at 2, well, inflation is sticky, sticky, sticky. No, it's actually gone down significantly. And you could argue that the next 100 basis points lower is taking a while, but I firmly believe that not only will underlying inflation get to 2 percent, I think it's probably going to go below 2 percent. Everybody's talking about AI, AI, AI. If you're a buyer into the AI story, and you've been holding on to all these Mag-7 stocks, you have to have a particular view of what productivity growth is going to look like in the future. You better have a bullish view of productivity if you're buying these stocks. But in a case of cognitive dissonance, the same people buying these stocks talk about inflation, inflation, inflation. Because of the tariffs, tariffs, tariffs, right? Well, I'll get into that. You're buying these stocks. Well, don't talk to me that tariffs are going to be bigger than AI. This is going to firstly create tremendous uncertainty and dislocation in the jobs market. This is going to lead to a prolonged period of job uncertainty. You're going to find wages are going to be tough to go up as the robots come looking for your job. And on top of that, the productivity is going to be significant. Nobody knows the extent, but we know productivity growth is an inflation destroyer. It's got a huge negative correlation with inflation. So nobody talks about productivity and how that's going to influence labor costs, which is the root ultimately of sustainable inflation. It's just not going to be there. Yes, tariffs depends how they're implemented. Let's say that he's going to put a 25 percent tariff on Canada and Mexico, 60 percent on China, 10 or 20 percent on the rest of the world. It's a once and for all level price shock. Okay. It creates temporary inflation. We get a price shock that will also hurt the economy a lot. But you're not going to get sustainable inflation out of it. The only reason we had the inflation in the 1970s is because OPEC didn't raise oil prices just once. And this was a period where the US was totally dependent on foreign oil. If OPEC had just raised the prices once, they could have doubled the price of oil in 1973, and we would not have had the inflationary experience of the 1970s. They raised the oil price every single year, and by the end of the 1970s, the oil price had gone up tenfold. But that's how you'll get recurring inflation, is if the inflation shock is repeated every single year, because inflation is a process. It's a dynamic process. So, if you're going to tell me that Donald Trump is going to raise tariffs every single year at a perpetuity, then I'll say, okay, uncle, we're going to get big inflation. But is he going to raise tariffs each and every year? Because inflation is a way to change. Tariffs will produce winners and losers. It's unclear, by the way, unclear, and it depends where you are in the cycle, who's going to bear the burden of the tariffs. And especially if I'm right on the labor market, that we're going to create more slack, this is not going to feed in the wages. So I'm not so sure, I'm not so sure we're going to get a lot of final inflation. I know that's, look, I know that's the consensus narrative, but I've made, I made a career out of betting on the consensus narrative. What about the economy? I mean, you mentioned that you think that the wages are not going to increase. I mean, we've had some pretty sizable increases in union contracts, for instance. If we're, you know, on-shoring, then the labor costs and the costs of producing goods is going to be more expensive than it is, for instance, in Mexico or in, you know, in Taiwan or in Vietnam. So, you know, what about those factors? Well, like I said, inflation is a complex process. So you're giving me one or two different things, and I can talk to you about three or four other things. So what, so I could come back and say, well... Let's talk about productivity, for instance. Absolutely. AI is going to generate tremendous productivity growth. We don't know how much. And how soon does the productivity of a new technology actually take effect? It's usually, it's certainly never overnight, right? And it usually takes a while. No cycle is the same. There's lags. The Internet generated productivity very quickly. General AI, it could take a year, maybe two years. Nobody really knows. But who cares? You just have to know that it's out there. And it's going to absorb, it's going to cushion any wage increases we're going to be seeing. But you see, I don't think as the unemployment rate is on a rising trend, they're going to be seeing a lot more unions demanding a lot more pay increases. You see, the thing is, with all the front-page news on those wage settlements, don't forget that these workers got crushed during COVID. We did have, call it an 18-month period of rabbit inflation. Real wages went negative. And so these union contracts just were making up for lost time. I would not be looking at those as a leading indicator of what's going to be happening over the next several years. You know, we talk about tariffs, sure. Talk about on-shoring, sure. But nobody talks about deregulation, which Donald Trump, like tariffs, can do through executive order with the wave of the magic wand. And deregulation cuts corporate costs. So there's a lot of things that go into the inflation equation. You know, you mentioned about the on-shoring. Well, all of a sudden, who's going to be doing any on-shoring when you consider that the US dollar in just the past three or four months has shot up 10%? So even before Donald Trump has lifted a finger, and this is when we talk about speculation and expectation, everybody getting ahead of the tariff. Other countries are ratifying. I mean, the Canadian dollar, I live in Toronto, is down to 69 cents. How do you fight a tariff as the other country? Well, I guess you can get into a trade war. I'm not so sure that, you know, we all know as children in the schoolyard, if you fight back the bully, the bully will give you two black eyes, not one. So, what these countries are doing is, they're ratifying weaker currencies as an antidote to whatever tariffs. So, it becomes almost like a zero-sum game. So, all of a sudden, actually, it's become more expensive for a foreign producer to set up shop in the United States, because we just had a massive dollar shock before anything's even happened. By the way, look what's happening with underlying import prices in the United States. They're starting to slow down. We just saw in the month of December, that strip-out food import prices were negative 0.1 percent. The dollar is already working its way through before the tariffs on creating disinflation. And when the tariffs come in, these countries will cut interest rates. As the Fed is telling everybody, no, we're like deer in the headlights right now. We're going to hold rates steady. And they will for the time being. These other central banks, and you'll see very soon, the Bank of England will cut rates, the ECB will cut rates. I think that the Reserve Bank of Australia will finally cut rates. The Bank of Canada has already cut interest rates to 175 basis points, and they're not done. So rates are going to come down because these countries are going to have to protect themselves from the shock from the tariffs. And as you cut rates and the Fed is slow to cut rates, what happens? Your currencies go down, the US dollar goes up. So people talk about tariff, tariff, tariff, tariff, tariff. And I say to them, well, have you factored in what the compensating factor is on the other side of the equation called a strengthening US dollar? Because one hand will just wash the other hand. So no, I'm not buying in to the inflation narrative. And for every single comment I get, believe me, I've got more than one rebuttal to it. I just heard a couple of them, pretty convincing ones at that. So your position that you think is that the Fed is in fact, even though the signal from Jay Powell has been that they're going to be very cautious about cutting interest rates, you think that there are some interest rate cuts ahead by the Fed? Well, not immediately. And the one thing we know, we know two things about Powell. He loves consensus, but he's also a pivoter. He's Powell the Pivoter. If you go back to December 2018, just as a microcosm, he could not have sounded more hawkish in December 2018. If you listen to him in December 2018, and you and I were having this interview, you'd say to me, Rosenberg, you really think the Fed's going to cut rates in 2019? And I would hopefully have said, yeah, yeah, I think he's going to cut rates exactly three times. And you would have said, but that's not what he's saying at the last meeting. And I'd say, well, I guess I have my view and Powell has his view. So you would never have guessed at the December 2018 meeting, and this is before COVID, that he would have cut rates three times. If you call Powell's bluff, you would have actually made your clients a lot of money in the fixed income market. So here we are, 2025, what's your call? I think that by March, the unemployment rate will be back on a rising trend. And I think that by March, core PC inflation will be down to 2%. And I think the Fed will be singing from a different songbook. And by the way, there are some people in the Fed that agree with me, at least two of them, Christopher Waller, governor, and Austin Goolsbee, Chicago FRB president. I know that they have my view, and I think that they're right. I think to be expecting a different set of DAW plots and a different tone from the Fed in March. For some people, March is around the corner. For other people, March is like 10 years away. It depends on your time horizon, and whether you're a day trader. I'm not going to say that all the rate cuts that were being embedded in the bond market back in September will come back in, but I think we'll go back to at least four cuts. If not by March, then by June, the Fed will be signaling that they're going to resume the downtrend in short-term interest rates. This will be good news for the financials, but I think that the whole treasury market is going to rally. That's a high conviction call that I have, by the way. I'll say. So that would be very good for the bond market. It would be very good for the bond market because the overnight rate, I mean, people say the Fed doesn't control the long end of the curve. Well, they don't directly, they really just change the overnight rate. But the overnight rate is really an anchor for the rest of the curve. And the rest of the curve is correlated. The 30 year, the 10 year, look, they're influenced by fiscal concerns and they're influenced by economic growth and a whole bunch of other things, supply and demand, fund flows, so forth, inflation expectations. But the gravitational pull from what the Fed's going to do will lead to lower long term interest rates. What shape is the economy in, Dave? I mean, I've seen headlines about the fact that Trump is being handed an economy that's in really great shape. The strength of the economy certainly has been touted by the Biden administration. So what shape do you think the economy is in? And you could argue that the economy is great. I would say that the evidence is mixed, but no, there's no evidence that we're in a recession. I thought we'd see one by now, but the lags are longer this cycle. But to those who say that Trump has inherited a great economy, I say, be careful what you wish for, because I think you'd rather, as a president, be coming in at the lows of the stock market and coming in at the depths of the recession. This might come back to bite a lot of people. Coming at the peak of the cycle and the peak of the market, becoming president, might not be the best thing in the world for Donald Trump. So is that what you're saying, that as far as the economy is concerned, we're at the peak of an upcycle? I think you're certainly at the peak of the upcycle in the stock market. Where are we in the economy, in the economic cycle? We got down to a 3.5% unemployment rate. We're now just a bit above 4%. It doesn't move in a straight line. But at 3.5%, people say it's not going to get better than this. They're right. It doesn't get better than that. So we already hit full employment. And that usually marks close to the peak of the business cycle. To tell you the truth, I think that the economic cycle, it's still positive, don't get me wrong. We're not in a recession. And I got that call wrong in the sense that I was way too early. I haven't abandoned it. And we can go into that as well. But I think this cycle, it's not even in the eighth or ninth inning, Consuelo. I think this cycle is, the economic cycle has gone in next earnings. And I'll explain what happened. The thing is that interest rates still matter. Interest rates in a credit-driven economy still matter. But the lags can take a long time. They could be really short or they could be really long. This reminds me a lot of the mid-2000s. The Fed starts tightening policy when? They start raising rates in June of 2004. The recession didn't start until December 2007. That's how long it took. The Fed finished tightening in the spring of 2006. In 2006, I'm at Merrill Lynch. I'm calling for recession. Wrong. 2007, I'm calling for recession. Wrong. Where's this recession already, Rosie? In fact, they didn't call me Rosie back then. They called me the skunk of the picnic, which meant that I ate lunch alone in the cafeteria a whole bunch of times. But where's the recession? Where's the recession? Where's the recession? I've lived through this before. So I came under tremendous pressure to take the recession call off. How good is it that I didn't and the people that listen to me and that I'm saving their livelihood in 2008 and a good chunk of 2009? Bull markets are nice escalators going up and bear markets slice your head off. They are elevators going down. And what you want to do is play the middle 60%. You want to play the middle 60%. That's the key to success. We are beyond that middle 60% whether it's the market or whether it's the economy. But I didn't anticipate that the United States would be running back to back fiscal deficits of over 6% of GDP. Do you understand? So, you know, people say to me, well, there's no recession. And I say, well, the only time America, the American government has run deficits this big was to fight recessions. The only time the deficit has been this big in the past has been to fight recessions. So, we have a deficit fighting a recession, but there's no recession. Oh, but we have a deficit that's aimed at a recession, but there's no recession. Think of how illogical that is. But it's been really the fiscal largesse that I underestimated. And if you strip out the direct and indirect, what we call the multiplier impacts of this gargantuan fiscal, I mean, the average in the OECD, XUS, the deficit is 3% of GDP. In Canada, the deficit is 2% of GDP. If you strip out the CHIP subsidies here, EV subsidies here, student loan debt repayment forgiveness over there, all the spending and tax subsidies, and you strip what the government's been doing out of the equation, we have an underlying economy running barely more than 1%. Now, admittedly, you'd say, okay, that's not negative, not a recession, to which I'd say, uncle, you're right, however, in the old days, when me and Stephen Roach would get together on Wall Street, we would be talking about how that is basically stall speed. When you go down to 1% on growth, and that's what the US economy is doing, strip bare of all the fiscal shenanigans. We got down to 1% underlying growth in the economy, people would actually be saying to me, when do you think the recession is going to start? No, no, no, not today, because of this Potemkin village that we built through all of this fiscal infrastructure. I'm getting pushback, I get clients saying to me, get off this recession call already. But you see, I can't, I can't, because I'm looking what's happening beneath the service and I know that not all the lags have played out. You're asking me where we are in the cycle, I'm getting the exact same pushback on my call on the recession as I was in September and October of 2007. Yep. And the recession began in December 2007. So I guess that I am just too far hitched to my memory bank. And knowing that history might not repeat itself as per Mark Twain, but it sure does rhyme. So I'm not going to drink the Kool-Aid and get sucked into the vortex of believing that the business cycle has been repealed. You will never hear that from me. You mentioned high-conviction calls a little bit earlier. What are some of your other high-conviction calls? Recession? I think that we will have a recession. I can't say that I have the timing down, but who can really time anything? We just got recently the Fed Beige Book, and it describes the economy as slight and soft and modest and moderate. If you read the tenor of the Beige Book, it goes back to 1970. And to which I say to the Jay Powell, if you're going to spend all the money and resources on the Fed's Beige Book, why not listen to it? Because those are interviews with business contacts across all industries and all regions of the country. And when you map it out, and we're doing more and more data science at my firm, it's a 1% economy, it's not 3%. And when you look at most of the survey data, like we just got a University of Michigan, consumer sentiment number, that was horrific. And I'll tell you Consuelo, the most disturbing statistic is that 50% of the respondents believe that the unemployment rate is gonna go up in the next year. 50%, a year ago, it was 30%. When you map out that number, going back the past five decades, you'll see that that only happens when you're either heading into, already in or coming out of recession. That's a pretty tried, true and tested indicator. You could argue that I had been wrong. May, I think I've been crazy early. I think I'll be wrong if I change my call, no recession, and next thing you know, we get it. Then it would have doubled down and been wrong twice. And I do not intend on doing that. All right, so we heard it here on WealthTrack. That's great. Dave, one investment for a long-term diversified portfolio. You gave us one in the first show. Is there another one that you would add to a long-term diversified portfolio? Yes, I said that I do like the five to ten year part of the treasury curve. The reason I don't say long bonds is because I do think that there is some fiscal risk, and that part of the curve is most acceptable. So play a little bit safer in more than mid part of the treasury curve. Okay, high conviction call. The next one would be, I'm going to move to the stock market. How about that? The big old bear is going to move to the stock market. And I would say, especially if you're an American investor, to buy the TSX Dividend Aristocrats Index, which is the blue chip, the bluest of the blue chip Canadian companies that have consistently grown their dividends over the past five years. So not just dividend growth, but dividend yield. You see, no matter what we're talking about in the United States, and we could have a big debate on interest rates, there's no debate in Canada where interest rates are going. Canada is a flat economy. It's the Flat Earth Society. If Donald Trump wants to annex Canada, just be aware you're buying a flat economy. Inflations come in way down. The bank Canada is cutting interest rates. And as you cut interest rates, and the bank Canada is cutting interest rates even with the Fed on hold, it's classic David Ricardo scarcity value. You want to buy what's scarce. And Canada was becoming increasingly scarce is yield. So you want to buy yield in the Canadian stock market with a 69 cent Canadian dollar. The currency is a massive tailwind for a US investor. And you're picking up an index, the TSX dividend aristocrats. And you could buy that index. It's got a low beta, high dividend yield, dividend growth in an undervalued currency. Very interesting idea and an unusual one as well, Dave Rosenberg. Thank you so much for joining us again for our annual deep dive into the economy. Dave Rosenberg, it's great to have you on. Great seeing you again too. Happy New Year. This episode is brought to you by Indeed. When your computer breaks, you don't wait for it to magically start working again. You fix the problem, so why wait to hire the people your company desperately needs? Use Indeed Sponsored Jobs to hire top talent fast. And even better, you only pay for results. There's no need to wait. Speed up your hiring with a $75 sponsored job credit at indeed.com/podcast. Terms and conditions apply. At the close of Every Wealthtrack, we try to give you one suggestion to help you build and protect your wealth over the long term. This week's action point is make sure you are diversified. The concentration in the market of late is staggering. Stocks comprise around 76% of household financial assets. Individual investors only have 3% of their financial assets and bonds. 10 stocks make up close to 40% of the stock market's value. As legendary economist, John Maynard Keynes once famously said, the markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent. It's time to think about rebalancing your holdings into non-stock investments like cash bonds and some alternatives such as gold, and in the stock portion of your portfolio into undervalued areas, such as small company stocks and international ones. Well, next week, the Essence of Investing, an exclusive interview with financial legend Charlie Ellis on his new book, Rethinking Investing, a very short guide to very long-term investing. In this week's extra feature, what does David Rosenberg do to relax? Does he ever? We'll find out. Don't forget to follow us on Facebook, X and our YouTube channel. Thank you for tuning in. Enjoy your weekend and make the week ahead a healthy, profitable and productive one.