Amidst elevated uncertainty, who's buying stocks, and what stocks are they buying? This is The Markets. I'm Chris Hussey. Today is Thursday, March 27th, and I'm here in the trading floor with John Flood, head of Americas Equities Sales Trading with Goldman Sachs Global Banking and Markets Division. John, great to have you here. As always, thank you for having me. All right, markets fell 10%. Looks like they were finding a bottom. Then we got some tariff announcements. Was this just a policy vacuum, or are we finding a bottom? I do not think that we've found a bottom yet. There's just too much uncertainty from the administration right now and too much headline risk from various tape bombs. But I do think that the highest velocity hedge fund performance destruction and de-risking is behind us. What we saw on March 7th and March 10th were multi-standard deviation events and some of the sharpest de-risking I've seen in my career. I am optimistic that we will not see an episode like that in the near future. But you sit in the seat here on the trading floor where you get to see a lot of the flows. Who's doing what? What are they doing? What are you seeing from the retail community, hedge funds, long-only asset managers, corporates, CTAs, the whole bunch? There's a lot of different moving pieces right now. And essentially, the S&P's 200 DMA is 5760, and it's acting like a magnet in both directions. And essentially, when we trend towards it, we're starting to see sellers. So that's a level I'm very focused on. And when you slice and dice the various stakeholders in the market, good news is that retail community appears to be back fully re-engaged. The CTA community is short $25 billion of S&P. This will act like a tailwind in terms of upside moves because this is a very momentum trend following community. As the market moves higher, the CTA demand will accelerate. Long-onlys are frozen into this April 2nd event. They've been better sellers on our desk. And like I just mentioned, the hedge fund de-risk that we saw on March 7th and 10th was real. We're seeing some clawback of performance, but again, the hedge fund community remains on the sidelines. And we're hoping that April 2nd will act as a clearing event for the long-only community and for the hedge fund community to get back involved. Corporates who bought north of a trillion dollars of stock last year started this year guns blazing, heavy buyers of stocks. The bad news is we are in the corporate buyback blackout period right now. That lasts until April 24th and essentially their flows during the buyback blackout period decreased by about 30%. So we're going to be in a little bit of a lull from the corporates for the next few weeks. All right, 200 DMA for those of you guys who are listening, refers to the 200 day moving average. That's a technical balance that often finds support for stocks. All right, let's bonk out for a second because we have a pension rebalance coming up here. How big a deal is that? What's going to happen here? It's a big deal because these pensions need to get the right mix between fixed income and equities in their portfolios. And essentially, because the equity market has been under pressure, there's going to be a size buy imbalance in equity. By our math, it's $25 billion to buy. This is S&P 500 versus 25 billion of bonds for sale. This when looking back at our historical data is one of the largest buy imbalances we've ever seen. It's not all executed on the last day of the month. You'll see it start to enter the marketplace now and maybe last for a couple of days into April. But it is large enough for us to think that it will have a meaningful impact on the market right now. And again, it's a tailwind for stocks and a headwind for bonds. Let's switch gears for a second here, because one of the trades that we've talked about on this podcast this year is the urge to find returns outside the US as people question US exceptionalism. Where are you with the Europe trade? Is there more to go? How comfortable are you? I'm uncomfortable in how much exposure has quickly been added in Europe and, frankly, now China. The hedge fund community, as we started to see potential regime shifts, quickly got European exposure underneath their belts for the first time in years. What we saw during the March 7th, 10th de-risk was a life-o phenomenon, last in, first out, within the US equity market. So names that they had recently bought on this Trump trade, financials, industrials, were the first to exit the portfolio. We did not see the life-o phenomenon regionally. I'm worried that if the market continues to be harder than we expected, which it certainly is right now, that you will see European equities for sale in this life-o phenomenon, which we just witnessed within Fins and industrials in the US. All right, let's go to the catalyst. Next week, Liberation Day, April 2nd, you referenced it. How are stocks trading into that day? Again, frozen. The asset managers and hedge funds really are waiting for this to be a clearing event. I don't want to call it a clearing event where then it's in line with expectations and the market can move up and to the right. We are bracing for this to be noisier and more complicated than expected, but I do agree that it frees up our biggest clients and the biggest investors in the world to start actively trading, whether that's playing offense or defense, we'll see, but you will see more movement. We've been trading 13 billion shares a day, which is significantly below year-to-date averages. Market volumes are depressed, and I expect them to trend towards 15, 16, 17 billion a day after we get through April 2nd. I want to ask your favorite trade, but before I do, let's tie a bow on everything we've said here. Are you bullish, bearish on the sidelines, US equities? Where do you want to be? I'm tentatively bullish. Like we said, we keep mentioning the 200 DMA, we're below it. I think that the S&P 500 will trend towards 50, 760, and if April 2nd is in line with expectations that we can hold this 200 DMA, which we have not been able to hold. So again, rallies significantly above 50, 760. I think the largest, most aggressive investors in the world will use as selling opportunities. But right now, risk is to the upside. Markets are literally on spring break. So what's your favorite trade? My favorite trade right now is selling consumer staples. We hear a lot about MAHA, make America healthy again. We are still very focused on GLP-1 overhangs. Essentially, these consumer staples, junk food, snack names, have been part of a violent squeeze that took place in the market. We keep referencing March 7th and 10th because it was a four standard deviation event for the hedge fund community. These are highly shorted names that move significantly higher due to hedge fund covering, not on longer duration investors having bullish views. I think that make America healthy again, GLP-1 will be overhang for these names and that it's a good opportunity to sell the strength in consumer staples. Good stuff. All right, last question. Next week is April 2nd, but it's also the start of a month. We get some big data. Any big data you're watching for? Next week could be one of the busiest weeks of the year. Sunday night, China's economic data. We have manufacturing ISM on Tuesday. Wednesday, we get tariff announcements. Then Thursday, we have services ISM. On Friday, we have jobs. It's a busy week. Throwing all of these data points in the blender and clearly, what we find out on April 2nd could set the tone for what the market does over the next coming weeks and I am optimistic. All right, really busy week. Harvard, La Crosse, lost to Princeton, then they beat BU. Pretender or contender? Contender, final four, baby. That's from the FOGO. Thank you very much, John. Appreciate you spending the time with us today. Thank you, Chris. That does it for this week's episode of The Markets. I'm Chris Hussey and thanks for listening. And if you want to hear more from Goldman Sachs, listen to Exchanges, our weekly podcast about the long-term trends impacting the economy and investors' portfolios. The opinions and views expressed in this program may not necessarily reflect the institutional views of Goldman Sachs or its affiliates. This program should not be copied, distributed, published or reproduced in whole or in part or disclosed by any recipient to any other person without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs. Each name of the third-party organization mentioned in this program is the property of the company to which it relates. It uses here strictly for the informational identification purposes only and is not used to imply any ownership or license rights between any such company and Goldman Sachs. The content of this program does not constitute a recommendation from any Goldman Sachs entity to the recipient and is provided for informational purposes only. Goldman Sachs is not providing any financial, economic, legal, investment, accounting or tax advice through this program or to its recipient. Certain information contained in this program contains forward- looking statements and there is no guarantee that these results will be achieved. Goldman Sachs has no obligation to provide updates or changes to the information in this program. Past performance does not guarantee future results, which may vary. Neither Goldman Sachs nor any of its affiliates makes any representation or warranty expressed or implied as to the accuracy or completeness of the statements or any information contained in this program and any liability therefor, including and in respect of direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage is expressly disclaimed.