Trading at Schwab is now powered by Ameritrade, unlocking the power of Think or Swim, the award-winning trading platforms loaded with features that let you dive deeper into the market. Visualize your trades in a new light on Think or Swim desktop with robust charting and analysis tools, all while you uncover new opportunities with up-to-the-minute market news and insights. Think or Swim is available on desktop, web and mobile to meet you where you are. It's built by the trading obsessed to help you trade brilliantly. Learn more at schwab.com/trading. Please stay tuned for important disclosure information at the conclusion of this episode. Welcome to Investing Insights. I'm your host, Ivanna Hampton. We're kicking off a new series to help investors navigate market volatility. Morningstar strategist and authors will deliver timely insights, trends and tips. These episodes will pop into your podcast feed at least once a month. Let's begin with my conversation with Morningstar Inc. Senior Markets reporter, Sarah Hansen. Sarah investigated several market trends from the first quarter of 2025. We discussed how tariff fears were unsettling in the short term, but why long term outlooks remain optimistic. Thanks for joining me, Sarah. Thanks so much for having me. Glad to be here. Well, market volatility has rattled Wall Street, while consumer confidence has dipped on Main Street. The stock market and economy may appear the same, but they're not. Can you explain how they're different? Absolutely. Yeah, so this is one of those classic distinctions that comes up all the time on Wall Street and in the financial world. So the economy, the US economy, is the total picture of all the goods and services produced and consumed in the United States. And then the stock market is a collection of publicly traded shares of companies. The two things, as you mentioned, are not the same thing and they can sometimes paint conflicting pictures. So a lot of economic data, like GDP growth, consumer data, labor market data, will tell us what we know about the economy right now or even a few months ago, because it can be reported with a lag. And then the stock market is more of a forward looking machine. Expectations about kind of the state of the world and the state of earnings in the next couple months, the next year, are usually baked into stock prices. So the market kind of anticipates future moves. And then another distinction is that not everybody participates in the stock market, the way that everybody participates in the economy. But the two things, the stock market and the economy are interrelated, even though they're not the same. And some people have argued that they're more related than they used to be. Stocks can certainly be vulnerable to changes in the economic outlook. We saw a lot of that over the last couple months. Big bounces or big dips on economic data on inflation or jobs coming out as investors kind of tried to digest what it meant for the stock market and for the economy more broadly. And then there's also something called the wealth effect, which is when stocks are doing really well, households feel it. They feel that boost and it can kind of stimulate spending. And that does impact the economy more broadly. The reverse can also be true when the market is sliding, households get a little nervous, consumers stop spending. And you can see kind of some retrenchment there. Well, thank you for that. Well, let's get into recent trends. The stock market looked very different in the first quarter than it did at the end of last year. What changed? So you're right. This was a big change from 2024 to the first few months of 2025. The bull market has really stumbled. Stocks overall have fallen more than 4% since the start of the year. After spending the better part of the last two years just climbing and hitting record after record, we actually hit correction territory in March. That's a drop of between 10% and 20% off the most recent peak. And at the same time, we've seen a pretty big rotation start to take hold. So the tech stocks and the growth stocks that performed really, really well kind of faltered in the first few months of 2025, while value stocks and defensive stocks like healthcare and energy really outperformed. And then international markets also outperformed, especially China and Europe, while the US market struggled. And then overall, as stock prices fell, valuations fell too. So the market is looking cheaper than it did at the end of last year. And then kind of final point, I think maybe the biggest thing that investors probably noticed is volatility day to day. We saw bigger swings in the market on economic data, on policy news, bigger moves day to day and week to week. Sarah, what caused all those changes? So there's a lot, there's a lot at play. And there's no, as unfortunately, there's no one easy answer. One of the big, one of the big things at play here is policy for from Washington. So for a lot of last fall, investors were really optimistic that policy changes under the Trump administration would boost growth and boost stocks. So that's things like deregulation and tax cuts. But this year, we're contending with big changes to trade policy in the form of tariffs. And investors are nervous that tariffs will kind of weigh on economic growth, and also they could exacerbate inflation, at least in the short term, which, you know, inflation is not nearly as high as it was a couple years ago, but it's still higher than, you know, the Fed would prefer. And so that's still kind of weighing on sentiment a little bit. And, you know, the other element on tariffs is just uncertainty, you know. We are still not looking at the full picture, you know, there's more announcements to come, and so investors are digesting that. And then there are other signs of an economic slowdown too. Consumers are getting a little nervous. We're seeing kind of sentiment change and deteriorate growth. It's like GDP growth was expected to slow down before tariffs. So we're kind of digesting how much more, we'll see it slow. And then market-wise, you know, we've seen changes in like in the tech trade, in that artificial intelligence trade that powered stocks higher for two years. We've seen it stumble. You know, valuations for those companies were sky high. You know, what analysts call price to perfection at the end of last year. And so they were really vulnerable to a pullback. You remember kind of the deep sea canoes from January, although that feels like a very long time ago, but now it actually wasn't. And then so all of that together is kind of contributing to what analysts call like a risk-off environment. That's a word that we're hearing again. And it's kind of just a period of caution for investors where they're pulling back from riskier things and seeking kind of safer assets, safer bets for a while. Trading at Schwab is now powered by Ameritrade. Unlocking the power of thinkorswim, the award-winning trading platforms loaded with features that let you dive deeper into the market. Visualize your trades in a new light on thinkorswim desktop with robust charting and analysis tools. All while you uncover new opportunities with up-to-the-minute market news and insights. Thinkorswim is available on desktop, web and mobile to meet you where you are. It's built by the trading obsessed to help you trade brilliantly. Learn more at schwab.com/trading. A lot has happened in this quarter. You've brought up tariffs and I want to time stamp for this moment in our conversation. It's just before 11 a.m. on Wednesday, April 2nd. Sarah, can you get into more and talk about what's going on with tariffs right now? Absolutely. So we've had tariffs implemented already this year. We've had announcements from Washington, but as of today, Wednesday morning right now, we are waiting for another announcement from Washington that'll be this afternoon. And so by the time this episode comes out later this week, we will know a lot more. You know, we're not sure whether it's going to be a big across-the-board increase it could be, or whether it's going to be more targeted, more specific. We just don't know yet. And even after the announcement this afternoon, I suspect that the details will trickle out more slowly as things kind of evolve. The general agreement on tariffs, even without knowing specifics for this afternoon, is that they will be a hit to growth, at least in the short term. And they do have the potential to put pressure on inflation, which has implications for the Fed, which has implications for lots of companies. And there's little doubt that at least some of the cost of tariffs on companies will get passed on to consumers. But over the longer term, it's still a huge question mark. It's difficult to know how things will shake out, especially given how just fluid the policy has been. Gotcha. Well, the current uncertainty is pushing up the demand for gold right now. What does this mean in the short term? Yeah, yeah, we've seen a big run up in gold prices. And that is because investors often treat gold as kind of a hedge for economic downturns, you know, for when the geopolitical situation looks a little uneasy, when the outlook for the economy looks a little uneasy, the investors kind of flock to gold for safety. And so that's why we've seen prices go up. It wouldn't be surprising to see that continue. You know, the outlook will be changing. And so we could see some changes in the gold price too. But investors should be aware that, you know, gold is also a volatile asset. So it can go down quickly, just like it can go up quickly. And trade tensions are leading some analysts to tweak their recession forecast. So first, how does declaring a recession work? And second, is there a danger of one happening? Yeah, so recession is a tricky concept. And it's a scarier word that's getting thrown around kind of more and more. It's bubbling up in the conversation these days. Officially, there is a definition from the National Bureau of Economic Research. And that definition is a significant decline in economic activity that is spread across the economy and lasts more than a few months. That's a formal designation. It gets applied retroactively. So we could be hearing, oh, we've decided that a recession started a year ago in a couple months, in two years. We just don't know. And the committee looks at a lot of data to make that call. There's also an unofficial kind of rule of thumb, which is two quarters of negative economic growth, negative GDP growth. And we haven't seen that yet. But you're right, that Wall Street forecasters are kind of raising their odds. We've seen forecasts rise to 30%, 40% odds of a recession this year. But that's far from a foregone conclusion and that outlook is fluid. What analysts do agree on is kind of a slowing of growth in the medium or near term. But tariffs, like we talked about earlier, have really thrown a wrench in a lot of this forecasting. The Fed is on hold. That's kind of people are waiting to see how monetary policy shakes out. And questions about the labor market, questions about the inflation outlook, all of it will kind of help determine that question. But right now, it's hard to say. And Morningstar analysts regularly tout the benefits of portfolio diversification. This strategy recently proved its worth. What are other important things for investors to remember right now? Yeah, so you're right. If there was one big takeaway, and Morningstar has written about this, if there was one big takeaway from the first quarter, it's that diversification is still a winning strategy. If you held a diversified portfolio over the last few months, like not just tech stocks, not just in the big indexes, but if you really looked across the market, you probably did escape the worst of the damage. And what I would add is that in moments like this, where things feel very uncertain, where stocks are volatile and jumping around, moments like this are why you have an investing plan. It's a lot easier to stay invested when stocks are just going up and everything is going right, but you can build a strategy for moments like this that feel a little less stable to help you stomach some of that volatility. And it's worth mentioning too, that there are pockets of undervalued opportunities. Morningstar strategists like value stocks, they like small caps, although small caps, they say, will take a little more time to work as the economic outlook evolves. And then overall, a lot of strategists are still constructive on the fundamentals for the economy, on the fundamentals for the stock market. Again, with tariffs, hard to say for sure, but we'll get a better picture, I think, of companies and how they're doing when first-quarter earnings start rolling in in the next week or two. So, there will be plenty more on that to come. Sarah, we're going to add your article, 13 charts on Q1's dramatic rotation in stocks, to the show notes. It was so great talking with you today. Agreed. Thanks so much for having me. That wraps up this week's episode. Thanks for listening and making this show part of your day. The Investing Insights team asked that you give our podcast five stars to help others find the work we're producing for you. Thanks to senior video producer, Jake Van Kersen, associate multimedia editor, Jessica Bebel, and digital communications specialist, Kumudini Diwala. I'm Ivanna Hampton, lead multimedia editor and Morningstar. Take care. This recording is for informational purposes only and should not be considered investment advice. Opinions expressed are as of the date of recording and are subject to change without notice. The views and opinions of guests on this program are not necessarily those of Morningstar Inc. and its affiliates, which together we refer to as Morningstar. Morningstar is not affiliated with guests or their business affiliates unless otherwise stated. Morningstar does not guarantee the accuracy or the completeness of the data presented herein. This recording is for informational purposes only and the information, data, analysis, or opinion it includes or their use should not be considered investment or tax advice and therefore is not an offer to buy or sell a security. Morningstar shall not be responsible for any trading decisions, damages, or other losses resulting from or related to the information, data, analyses, or opinions or their use. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. All investments are subject to investment risk, including possible loss of principal. Individuals should seriously consider if an investment is suitable for them by referencing their own financial position, investment objectives, and risk profile before making any investment decision. Please consult a tax and or a financial professional for advice specific to your individual circumstances. Advisors and financial experts, this one's for you. Registration is now open for the Morningstar Investment Conference. On June 25th and 26th, join thousands of your peers in Chicago for two days packed with cutting edge research, expert insights and thorough analysis. Advisors can even attend for free and earn CE credits. Learn more about the MIC conferences at morningstar.com/events/mic.