Hello and welcome to The Joys of Compounding. We're still on the same mission, to study greatness in order to help you find and compound your life's work as fast as possible for as long as possible. I'm Paul Buser. And I'm Rick Berman. We're your hosts, and each session, our teachers will be some of the world's most compelling people from across the vast range of human achievement. This show is brought to you by Pine Grove Studios in collaboration with Colossus. The hosts of the show, Rick Berman and Paul Buser, are the co-founders and co-CEOs of Seda Grove Holdings and co-CEOs of Seda Grove Management Company. All opinions expressed by any of Rick, Paul or their podcast guests are solely their own and do not reflect the opinion of either Seda Grove Holdings or Seda Grove Management Company. This podcast is intended for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as the basis for investment decisions. Seda Grove Holdings or clients of Seda Grove Management Company may maintain positions and securities discussed in this podcast. Take your seats. Class is in session. Today's teacher is Rich Wells, Managing Director of the Juggernaut Software Investor, Insight Partners, which celebrates its 30th year anniversary this month. Let me start by saying that this class was both extra special and extra difficult for me. I've known Rich for 20 years since our time as section mates in business school, and to shine a light on him and his story is both emotional and something I feel honored to be able to do, especially as this is Rich's first ever podcast. My recollection of him from our business school days is similar to comments we heard from so many along the arc of his career. It just feels like Rich is about always the smartest guy in any room he's in. And more than that, though, he's also truly someone of what I can only describe as uncommon character. And so I didn't exactly need to be Nostradamus at the time to see then that the powerful alchemy of those qualities meant that Rich was going places. In our discussion, we talk a lot of software. After all, when you ask around to people in the know within the industry, Rich is universally regarded as one of the preeminent private market software investors of the last 20 years. We also talk about the key inputs to Insight's success in Edge, especially the agility that has been necessary for the firm to become and stay excellent for 30 years now. But this conversation is about much more than investing. While Rich has experienced the highest heights of his craft, he's also had to endure unimaginable lows, including the tragic loss of his wife Rachel, who is also my friend and someone I admire very much. Roger Federer said the true mark of a champion is not the amount of wins one stacks up, but rather the mastery of overcoming life's hardest moments. The late great Charlie Munger agreed, saying what matters most is how you cope and find a way to keep moving on. He said, somehow you soldier through. If you have to walk through the streets crying for a few hours a day as part of the soldiering, go ahead and cry away, but you can't quit. The truth is that I have trouble imagining how I would ever get through something like what he has endured and perhaps you do too. And I'm so grateful to Rich for being willing to be vulnerable. And I genuinely believe there's critical wisdom in here for every person who has ears to hear. No matter what life throws at you, no matter how dark things get, remember that you've got to find a way to keep going, just keep moving. With that, I hope you enjoy class with my dear friend and software savant, Rich Wells. All right, Rich, it's really just an honor and a gift to be with you. I've valued your friendship now for what? Coming up on 20 years. We got a lot of wood to chop today, though. I know the firm just announced this 30th year anniversary. I know there's a new fund. We want to get in to scaling excellence because it's really incredible what has transpired over the course of the last 30 years within software. You all have been certainly one of the leaders and you've maintained that status for three decades now. You yourself have had a remarkable life and career filled with highs and also filled with lows. We want to get into your journey because I think there's a lot there for others to learn from. Fortunately, Paul and I just came out of a hyperbaric oxygen chamber. It's a story for another time. I actually did some crazy IV therapy as well. So, if I hit the floor at any point, it's just it's next man in. Rich doesn't need us anyway. But the good news is so far, they promised us you'd be coming out of there feeling good. Yeah. And we're in flow state right now. Oh, that's awesome. It doesn't sound like it, but we were both. You guys literally just came from that. That's awesome. It's been a busy day. I think before we get into the meat in the substance, I think it's just so important to create a foundation for people. And I personally, too, just really want to hear more about your roots. With that, I think it would just be really interesting to turn it over to you and just share with us what you think are some of your most formative life experiences. And feel free to go back to those OG Cali days where it all started. Look, man, it's great being on this with you. And we go way back and obviously call her newer. And I really value what you guys have been doing. It's been a fun addition to the landscape of these kinds of things. I don't know if I could say long time listener, first time caller. We can rewind back. So I grew up in Los Angeles. I grew up on the west side. Sadly, not too far from where some of the stuff has happened more recently. Fortunately, it's largely been air quality issue for my people versus a lot of people really being impacted. And look, I had both my mom and my dad in my household growing up. And I really got a lot from both of them in a lot of ways. I'm a mix of, I think, some of their best qualities, maybe some of their not so best qualities too, like all of us. Look, for my dad, he's just intensely curious. The first thing you see when you walk into the house I grew up in, the one that they still live in is this little house. You walk in, there's just a wall full of books. And I was always a reader. I got that from my dad, and I was just picking books off that bookshelf for the early age. And then also just, he always believed really early on. Whenever we would talk about some public figure, something like that, he would have a really strong figure on, what that person did was right, and here's why, and what that person did is wrong, and here's why. I think that's really important, leaves a mark. He was in the military, right? He was, he served, he did a tour in Vietnam in 1969. He was also, for both my parents' stories, I'd say, I think that time, his service in the military was probably, looking at career, work standpoint, that was probably the highlight of his life. And I have these very vivid memories in the 80s of being a young kid, and my dad would wear his old utility jacket, and he was in a unit called the 101st Airborne, so there's a very distinct unit history to that. They have a very distinctive unit patch, it's a screaming eagle. And so from a very early age, I remember my dad wearing that jacket with the screaming eagle on the side. So in a lot of those books that he had on his shelf were military history and whatnot, so I just was brazed with a lot of that as context. My mom was a Democrat from Ecuador. She came to the States when she was about in fourth grade, didn't speak any English. She didn't go to college. School was not her thing, but despite that, man, you've never seen a harder worker in your life. A big part of getting me to college and through college was her. She's about four foot 11, so an undersized drill instructor with a strong accent, but I had to work hard. There was no choice. Then she was the sheer relentless of making things work, so we didn't have much money growing up. I'm still not sure. It was really my mom who was figuring out how to make it happen. I'm still not sure how she strung it together, honestly. I don't think she really knows how she strung it together. When you talk about bootstrapping and squeezing blood from a rock, whatever little phrase, she did it all. There was a lot of household fights about money. There was a lot of, we don't have money to do that. That's where I came from and I was tired of this. I was tired of not having enough money. That really left a mark. And I wanted to go out and do something about that in my own life. And one thing, we never travel, we never had the money to travel. I think in looking at what to do between Pell Grants from the US government and then just outright grants from the university, Penn gave me a shot. It crossed off between them and the federal Pell Grants, it crossed off the vast majority of the bill. And so we still had to figure out how to do it, but gave it a shot. And look, when I was at Penn, at Penn's phenomenal school, it was a phenomenal learning experience. I met my wife towards the end of it, but I was not prepared. Coming from public high school in Los Angeles, into that. And so I spent the first two years really being terrified. Like the first month or two were awesome. And then I looked at, you know how you study for exams by seeing old exams? So I saw some older sample exams for, I think this was like intro microeconomics. I was like, oh my God, this is the hardest test I've ever seen. I'm going to flunk out of here. And so I spent the first two years being terrified I was going to flunk out of there. And then I spent the second two years when I finally got over that. I'm like, okay, I think they're not going to kick me out. I was a Wharton undergrad and man, these kids are squared away at a young age. They're talking about Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. And I'm like, we're a pretty good school. I don't see why we have to go become bank tellers out of college. I didn't know what investment banking was. I had no idea. I was terrified that I wasn't going to get a job because this was my competition. This was my peer set. I wasn't uniquely smart amongst all of us. I was smart enough to get in and that's about it. And so if I'm not smart with everybody else and I really have no idea what I'm doing, I'm just going to have to outwork everybody, or at least outwork everyone to keep up. And so that's what I did. And what I found is the value of that hard work. I think I mentioned to you, that's something that's always appealed to me about for, somebody was telling me recently, when we were talking about Kobe Bryant, are you Kobe or Shaq? And I'm like, what do you mean? And what they really meant was, can you connect with Kobe's work ethic slash took him to a stream? Those stories have always appealed to me. It's a common theme for many of us, certainly in my own life and career, arriving at that next stop, you're feeling like you're not prepared. It's natural, you're the newbie. In addition to just this sense of, all right, I'm going to work my way to catch up. Anything I'll stand out to you, whether it comes from lessons from some others like Kobe and Michael, or just in general when you look back on, because I think this probably, as we get into your career, you probably saw that same pattern again, where the first couple years are all about figuring out how to get your sea legs. But what else would you say just for those who are out there who are currently in that condition, how do you get back to baseline? What I would probably come back to is plunge in, spend the time and just absorb them. I remember, so my first job at a college was as a management consultant, and I just remember going through the internal portals where they had all these different projects that were out there. I just remember being amazed. So I would just spend hours on my own, accessing all the things that I could and just reading it. I'd say 98 percent of it went over my head. But when I started off at TCV as an investor, it was a transition moving from being a management consultant where you're almost academically talking about creating value to being an investor. Actually, I have to go make money. Creating value, you need to have profit on your P&L. That's where I started reading office letters. Again, you don't know what it means necessarily, but just plunging in and then look, not being afraid to spend that time. I'm spending that time. So when I started off as a management consultant, there's a lot of, it's a phenomenal job to learn how to do analytic, how to structure analytic work, how to do analytic work, and then taking that analytic work and communicating it in a way that gets people to want to do something. And I still use all those toolkits to drive some of our people nuts. Sometimes when I'm editing a memo and just like, here we go. But the fact that I picked that up just by spending lots of time, and I was trying to explain this to one of my kids recently. Sometimes you just got to sit with it and struggle with it, and that's okay. Because the one thing you do have when you're younger, in the beginning, you have a lot of time. I don't think you realize it, right? You have a lot of time. One of the things that we're going to talk about your TCV days, we had a chance to connect with Jake Reynolds, a long time managing partner of TCV. He had some really funny things to say about you, funny and in kind. One of the things is, by the way, like your first couple of years at Mercer, and you mentioned the more academic nature of an experience like that. One of the first things that Jake said about you was, when you came to TCV, you actually showed up with some domain expertise. I think it was in like telecom. You haven't really done much in software yet, but you would come with this lens because you had developed a competency in an area that proved relevant, whether it's our class or other students around the country and the world who reach out to us and ask us what to look for in that first job. A lot of times I think management consulting and banking just gets branded as this general training ground when so many folks, I think again about Rich Wong of Excel who was on a couple of months ago. Those first jobs, you can get a lot done. You can develop yourself and you can build expertise in a way that for job two and three, you're a real asset. But let's just say more about those years. I didn't really know what I wanted to do when I came out. I knew I wanted to do business. I didn't know what that meant. I knew I did want to do Wall Street because frankly a lot of the people I didn't like at Wharton undergrad were going to Wall Street. I'm like, I'm going to hang out with them. But again, I didn't know what that meant. Then I had heard someone talk about management consulting is this nice, almost academic way of looking at businesses. I'm like, oh, that sounds gentle and nice. It was not. That was very intense. But I think in what showed up my first project, I just did technology and I was not a technologist. This was good old-fashioned. This is the late 90s, dot-com bubble, telecom bubble. This stuff sounded a lot cooler than, I don't know, like auto-supply chain or insurance or things like that. That's what I did and once you do it, you just keep doing it. What I really got that toolkit of taking analytical work and then communicating it. It was a great couple of years and then I decided, I saw that all the good people in my technology group at Mercer, we go to either venture-backed companies or venture firms. I didn't know what that meant. So I made a list, started cold calling and ended up connecting with one of Jake's partners and the dot-com bubble had burst. They said, well, maybe we should do some better diligence. Maybe we should have a management consult come in, except all of our just former bankers here. So that was my way in. And when I showed up, I didn't understand. Valuation was like a theoretical thing to me. P&L meant something, but again, the practicalities of building something and looking at financial results in these very raw young companies that were trying to get airborne was something I just wasn't familiar with. But what I could do is do a bunch of research, distill it down and communicate it succinctly to talk about board level communication, and then you talk about investors who serve on boards. That is an attention deficit group right there. So it is a great test. If you're able to communicate it succinctly, it goes a long way. So they're not really not used to it. I'm sure what I said was probably some variation to Jake of the sky is blue, but man, did I package it well. So that helped me get some credibility out of the gate. Well, I'm urgently like staying there late and spending weekends reading everything I can about investing to try to catch up. So yeah, like I said, I think the recurring themes, it has to connect with you and who you were. I think for me, that constant learning, that desire to double-click from a headline into, well, what are the key truths here? And not being afraid to go do that research to go get to those key truths. I think exposing yourself to that and then listening to what connects, and that'll stick with you. And then the stuff that doesn't 20 years later, not remembering anything. So, we'll leave it at Mark. One other thing Jake said before we move on from TCV, because you actually did move on from TCV and get into the reasons why around business school, he mentioned to us that often people ask him what his biggest miss was in terms of deals. And he said the more important question is, what is your biggest miss in terms of people? And Rich, you're the guy. He said you rank up there as possibly the biggest miss in terms of people in his career when he couldn't learn you back to TCV. We want to hear that story, but I'm just curious as you reflect on everything you just talked about, getting up the learning curve is, we're talking about how hard that is the first two years anywhere and you're only at TCV a couple of years before business school. What do you think it was that stood out about you? And as you think about that, and now you're a manager of a lot of people, what do you look for in other people so maybe they could fit that bill for you and the people you really want to attract? I think Jake's being very nice. I went to business school because it's hard to go back and think of this now. When I started off at TCV, my first Monday meeting was the Monday after 9-11. One of TCV's big winners was Expedia. They were talking about negative revenue. What that was? It sounded really bad. And they used to send around these voicemail updates on the portfolio. And you just hear a lot of 75 percent riff here, fire sale here, shutting this company down over here. Oh my God. What have I got myself into? I was part of an internal project with a great long-time investor in funds named Donna Smollins. She was internal at TCV at the time. And we went through the portfolio looking for value, and it was Expedia, it was Netflix, it's maybe a couple of others, and that was it. And so Jay got this and said, okay, only one thing left to do, invest your way out of it. So we started cold calling, we started trying to make things happen. But things were still coming out of the spring, summer of 23. It was still tough. There was this HBR article called IT is Dead. It's funny now, right? It's like really as we make sure that our smartphones are all muted. But it was really big. So I went to business school to figure that out, because this whole tech thing might have been a fad. And then I'm hanging out with, first of all, hanging out with Rick in our section. But we were really fortunate. We had some really great folks that had already had some investing experience, like Sean Klimczak, like Ryan Sweeney. And so when we're sitting around talking, you just realize, wow, we're all saying the same stuff. At the end of the day, we're all investors with big plots of money trying to deploy it and try to be good board members. We all sound alike. We're all more similar than different. So how do you find that way? And at the school, you have too much time, right? So you just sit around and pontificate and chew the fad over these sorts of things. So I decided I wanted to go back to being a growth investor and decide this tech thing. Well, if it's fad, I'm going down the ship. And I talked with TCV about coming back. So at that point, Rachel and I, my wife, she had just become my fiance then. And she had been in her PhD program at Columbia this whole time. So Rick, if you remember, she would come up a lot. But that's because she had weekends and a lot of flexibility during her dissertation slash procrastination dissertation. It's like, go hang out with the gang up at HBS or don't work on this. But as we started our life together, we had to be in the same city. And then there wasn't much to do with technology invest. This is early 2005, mid 2005 making these decisions. And so I talked to TCV about trying to start up, hey, can I work remotely, can I effectively start in New York office? And there was hemming and hawing and finally, you'd be out there on your own. You're not a partner yet. Really, I had, and then of one or two to go. And so there was two firms, one of which is actually based in Boston. I wasn't sure how it was going to work. And so I went out and got offers for both and ended up choosing Insight. And then later on, ironically enough, they did hire someone, a partner, TCV in New York. This is before I had started. And they called up and said, Hey, great news, we solved the problem. We have a partner for you to work with who's based in New York. And it would have been a very familiar thing. I knew those guys, but I had made a commitment. So I said, no, I got to stick by that commitment. Which, by the way, is exactly what Jake remembers. And I think this is why he feels like you were the miss, was this set up of it's now the time to be flexible and just create space in New York for somebody who's really talented. But then the fact that you went on and first showed your integrity by making the decision that your relationship with Rachel was more important than a career decision. And then reinforcing that integrity, standing behind Insight once you had already joined when you had an easy path to helping to set up the TCV office. I think that's where character starts to show up in a young career. It just doesn't seem all that maybe complicated, but those are the decision points that you get. What are you going to decide? It's not always clear. It's not clear that there always is a right answer and a wrong answer, but that's where character gets revealed. In retrospect, Insight ended up being joining Insight in mid-2005. Better be lucky than good, right? Aligning with the firm just as it was really taking off and ascending. I wish you would have told me about this whole software thing going on. I go on to study theology the next year. Organized religion has been in perpetual decline for the last 20 years. You're riding the greatest wave in modern history. I do want to go back to business school because 20 years ago, going to the top business school, going to Harvard Business School, there's nothing controversial about that decision, right? Today, I think that question is as controversial as it's ever been. Look, let's try to put aside my critical mentorship over the last 20 years. What else did you get from those two years at HBS when you look back on the value that the experience gave you? There's really a few things. One, from doing the work aspect. I was a warden underground and I worked in investing and I was a consultant before that. The basic toolkit of analytical things like Excel and generating PowerPoint and reading a set of financial statements, I had those boxes checked. So that's probably the biggest functional set of skills you'd get. So if you have no idea of any of that, there's some value to be had from that. But I think functionally, what I had to do coming out of business school when I started being investors, now it was a career track. The ranks of analysts and associates to these investment firms, they were not small back then, there's a lot more of them now, and that's an individual contributor job. Now, when you're doing a career track job and you have to manage, be a critical thinker and yet still orient towards, particularly if you're going to be successful, be an investor and have that investor mindset, there's really nothing better than, and I'm probably a little biased towards, I only know the HBS approach, we're in case studies, but we spend so much time trying to assemble information and make sure it's right. That's like 90 percent of calories spent, I felt as when I was an associate. Now, it's all there. Let's just stipulate it's right. What do you do with this? And how do you talk to people about this? If you go back to our conversations now, you'd probably just cover your eyes and get ear muffs in. Thank goodness we didn't record everything back then. Hopefully, they still don't, but it just makes you flip that mindset. And that's really valuable. And I think that's probably the biggest thing from a work-doing-the-work standpoint I got. And the other thing is just relationships. Later on, when I hear at Insight, when I got effectively promoted to our investment committee and manager committee, I'm like, now we're starting to talk about managing a firm. How do you do that? I would call up Nadim and he was ascending at Blackstone, and I would take him out for caffeine or something else and just ask him questions. And because if I had to think, what financial investment firm has done a good job in thinking about people and managing? And I was able to call Nadim, and we were able to have a relationship where he was able to try to coach me a little bit based on what he had seen and learned. So I think those kind of relationships, and they'll show up. I think we were chatting about how Insight and Excel have a very close relationship institutionally now across various levels. That really got going because Ryan Sweeney went over there, and we started talking about things. And one of my greatest anti-portfolio companies is a deal that I could have shared with Ryan and his partners at Excel with Atlassian. Oops. And that DNA from way back, the origins of that relationship institutionally started because Ryan and I, we knew each other from section. So interesting. I think this is one of the hardest things to understand from the outside because most classroom settings in general, most graduate programs are not focused at all on creating lifelong relationships. But these top business schools, they have developed formulas, algorithms for how to get 80-100 students together and really bond them together quickly and want to do life together. Beyond that, I have a very similar reflections. I think Paul does too. In fact, as we continue to teach in Notre Dame, that's something that's more than anything else probably central to our classes. How do we bring what we learned about how HBS creates a classroom culture where the students really believe that it's their class, not the professor's class in order to foster community, in order to hopefully create a more open learning environment, a more vulnerable learning environment, but also to create a long tail of relationships for many, many decades. To me, I think that was the most magical thing. So 2005, you show up at Insight. We're going to get to the current state of play, but the firm's 10 years in, founded by Jeff Horan, Jerry Murdock. What did you see? What was present? What was already foundational in that journey? We can layer on to your own experience. So I had heard of Insight, actually I'm working on a deal with Jake when I was at TCB, and chasing after this really interesting company. And I forget we were competing with Insight. Insight was one of the firms in there. And I just remember Jake reacting, basically darn it. Probably got here earlier. They probably talked to every company in the space. They're really thoughtful on software, and this market in particular. And this is a real comparison. I just kind of filed that away. Interesting. And so then I didn't have a lot of options for Northeast and New York Tech Growth Investing. I just like, I can barely put a finger up on one hand. But I reached out and I was fortunate enough to get an offer to join. Took a while because they were finishing up raising Fund 5, which is just under $700 million fund. And it was their first post-bubble fund. That first post-bubble fund was effectively the restart fund because you had to change your investor base, you had to account for the sins of the bubble, you had sorted through the aftermath, and it was the road forward. And I had ended up hanging out with the former chairman of Greylock, Henry McCance, when he was at HBS my second year. And no one really knew who he was because, again, IT was dead. There was not that many people interested in growth technology then. And he was just hanging out there. And I'm like, wait a minute, this guy was, he wasn't the founder, but he basically took it over from the founder and grew Greylock to the big, then it was a Boston institution, but one of the old tier one firms in venture. And this guy's just hanging out there. So I would go hang out with them, and I cobbled together some independent study to go do with him, which basically meant he introduced me to his friends and I interviewed them on a topic. But I went and asked him about Insight, and so he was on Yale's Investment Committee, which I didn't realize at the time, except what I asked him, he just silently turned over to his bag, got out this big binder, put it down on the table, see it's Yale's or not, flips through it and just reads for like five minutes. So I'm just sitting in front of him watching this, a subtle word has just been spoken, what do you think about Insight? Finishes, closes the binder, puts it back in his bag, says, I think that's a good idea, I think you should go there. I was like, okay. And I was too terrified. See that binder? There was good validation, but ultimately it was all coming from, was the Insight knew that they wanted to go invest in companies that other people want to invest in. A big part of the strategy was we're gonna go out, we had some Homer Summit DNA, my partner Mike Triplett had helped really start the Analyst of Calling program here circa 2002, 2003. As part of that post.com, okay, we have to figure out our DNA and move forward. There was this boil the ocean approach that was brewing around software, but ultimately we were gonna wanna go and find companies that did invest in that everybody else was gonna want to invest in. So why the heck were they gonna wanna take our money? Hopefully we would find them first and foremost. You don't get to play the game if you're not in the game, but the second piece was we need to have something to be able to help outside of a border. And so that's where Insight OnSight had come from. It's very in vogue now, but this was basically just a set of resources that could work alongside these pretty thin teams and these very small ascendant growth companies and help them sort it. So we would have something to offer, and then we'd just be really specialized around software, because growth tech can mean a lot of different things. In its worst form, it can be whatever's growing fast. That's all people talk about being an internet investor. We're like, the internet really is a network. What you're really talking about is completely digitizing and networking a completely bespoke set of industries. Not anything coherent about that. That verticalization, that specialization around software, that having an ability to sort things outside of a boardroom, and a willingness to be proactive, not wait for the deals to come to you, to you go proactively figure out the landscape, pick up the phone. Originally, as a former management consultant, when I had to go do research on companies, and then have to, all right, I got to go call someone who's a competitor, and get them to talk to me. How the heck am I going to do this? Now you can call CEOs and they'll talk to you. And it's like, God, this is so much better to figure out information on, is this a good company? Is this a good market? So in that 05, 06 timeframe, what structures worked? So this is the first fund that you guys closed after it. Is it minority, majority? Now you do everything from very small, venture back to very large, almost public-oriented, multi-hundred million dollar investments. What worked back then? So then, it was, what you see now is very much an outgrowth of the journey that we went through. So really, it was at the end of Fund 4 that you'd really see, it was post.com bubble bursting. They were picking up the phone. They were calling companies. We were investing in SaaS companies in 2004. And with companies like Exact Target, with companies like Metadata, and we didn't call it SaaS. We called it like on-demand, application, service. Like it was some ponderous descriptive. But it was largely minority growth. And they were largely bootstrapped or thinly capitalized companies. And we were coming in, buying minority stake for working capital. You're kind of classic minority growth. But we were calling a lot of companies that didn't need money. They were either already profitable, they were bootstrapped, or it was a choice to burn more. That's the beauty of software is you don't need necessarily lots of capital to build something, and particularly if you have a real product with real product market fit and demand pull. And so in calling those, we talked to some entrepreneurs where they would say, okay, this makes sense, de-risking, capital allocation, getting some help around the table. But if I bring you in, my life's gonna change. So rather than sell you a minority stake, instead of selling you 30, 40%, I think I should sell you 60% to de-risk. And one of the best things that Insight did is a minority growth venture firm. This is where there's just some independent, I think today you'd call it, it's really that thinking from first principles today is the way you'd phrase it. I just think it's just independent thinking. And we said, okay, I guess we should probably raise some debt or something. And no one was doing that in software, and we didn't know idea how to do it either. There was not a tie to be found around here. And so I figured it out. And so that's the kind of deal. So I started off at Insight. We were still doing minority growth. We were finding a bunch of those. It's actually my first deals at Insight, ironically enough, were in these growing profitable software companies where we did effectively small leverage buyouts. And I'm not an LBO person at all. But at least not what my typecast was, particularly the aspiring masters of the universe that were at HBS coming out at the same time. That's not me. It was really just that's where the market was. And I think that ultimately, if I just keep going with that, you could draw a straight line from that to the Insight today and that we're just attaching ourselves to the market. Now, back then, we had five or six folks calling companies. Now, we have probably closer to 75. And they're just constantly talking to the market. And we are seeing what's working. We're seeing where the market is. And because we're focused on the sector, growth software versus a deal type, whether it's venture capital, minority growth, LBOs, and that's really the history of the industry is the deal type being applied to markets. We clipped that on its head. It's been a phenomenal strength, and it allows us to go where it is. To the lay person out there who just talked about, you've had this firm of a seat. How would you describe to them the evolution of software? You had license maintenance, you had whatever term you had for SaaS that none of us have ever heard of, and then you have SaaS, now we have AI. There's a lot of things in between. How have you viewed the evolution of software? What's important for people to understand? And importantly, how has that fed into the way you've structured the firm, or the way that you want to hold on to companies longer, sell them, build platforms, and just think about maybe some of your successes and misses because of how much it's evolved? When Jeff started the firm, he was always focused on software. Now back then, and actually really, it was still the case into, as you approach the financial crisis, that really meant largely on-premises, perpetual licenses. So effectively now, which you'd see in AWS and Azure, everyone was building themselves in a closet, or maybe a room, if they were bigger. And you'd have to deploy it yourself. And so the good news is, once that software was purchased, a business never wakes up in the morning and says, ooh, I want to go buy a big piece of software and change a lot of my processes and systems, etc. So the software that was being bought under that model, it was pretty important. And it was things that are still persisting today at big scale, Oracle, SAP, things like that. And that was version one, and that was the model to which we got to to that point. And then what shifted was a couple of things all happening at the same time. Initially first, there was just broadband infrastructure, so networks were no longer an issue. Then there was the growth of just the good old-fashioned Intel architecture at the time and then combine that with open source. So whereas before, if I wanted to start a software business, I would need to buy a lot of expensive development tools, I would need to have my own servers with Solaris licenses and whatnot, and that was not cheap. I just reduced lots and lots of friction. Now I could, ultimately with Amazon and with AWS and Azure now, now I didn't have to think about the infrastructure. I could just fire it up. And it was more of a on a consumption OpEx basis versus dealing with not just the CapEx, but shoot, I have that closet. And now I got to make the closet bigger, and I got to find a guy who knows how to do that. You don't have to deal with any of that. So there's just lots of friction that was worn down. So that's the friction to building it. And then distribution with the Internet. First, you could download discrete products. That was a big piece of what we were investing in in 05, 06. And then you didn't have to do that now with SaaS. And so all this friction meant on the buying side, you could now start talking to the end users. And I think something that we were able to attach to and figure out relatively early is software being bought by end users with a value pop directly to end users. So instead of building these big heavy software packages that had to be sold by these big expensive sales forces, a lot of that was driven by just having all these people to go in and install it, make it work in the closet, make it work in the room. Now you could expose that to the end user and they'd say, oh yeah, I want to buy that. And it would happen with much greater speed. And so that just allowed the adoption of software to happen in a far bigger, broader history. So that's one aspect of how the markets evolved. Another is, look, the life cycle of a software company doesn't necessarily fit with the venture cycle. You see a lot of the software companies that go public now, they've been around for a decade or so. If you get in really early as an early stage venture firm, and you hold on enough, yeah, the IRR will still be great, but it didn't get diluted enough. But that doesn't neatly fit. And then the thing is, really what a software company is built around a certain product market. Now, some product markets are enormous. We'll talk about, I mentioned Databricks later, we made a big investment that I held lead recently in. It's one of the approaching, it's not quite the biggest software market yet that they're addressing, but given the growth rate, it will be soon. But not all software markets are created equal. And the venture approach doesn't always fit. You could find some software companies that, wow, this is a great product, its market's only so big. But if this was appended with that product that's out there, and that product is out there, and it was housed in a bigger company, could then, was big enough that could afford more things, to do more things for the customer, wow, wouldn't that be great? You start, because you're exposing yourself to the market, you're able to see all these things. And even in an extent today where, I think, in one of the themes, I think, if you look at what we're seeing at this moment in time is, you just had this big platform shift that I just alluded to in some ways around cloud, SAS, mobile adoption, all these devices has helped adopt software too, of course. And you could talk about these big horizontal companies that were built. There's lots of crevices that SAS didn't bleed into yet, and it's bleeding into it as we speak. And these are really hard things, like, oh, how do you move, do a short-term plan, an updated flight plan for an airliner that's about to take off and move several hundred soles, and how many gallons of jet fuel, and oh, by the way, that platform is not exactly cheap. It took years to build. How do you move that around and do that in a super reliable way? Historically, someone figured out how to do this a long time ago, so you're running it on a mainframe, right? And so you're going to get the job scheduler to schedule it in the mainframe. Can we do better than that? But someone had to say, okay, I want to do this, and I want to do this in a SAS cloud way, but I need to know enough about it. So you're still seeing SAS, we were able to back a company that looked like that, FlightKey is my partner, Henry, recently. So you're just still seeing SAS bleed down into these crevices. But figuring out, seeing that evolution, and then the way we've organized, I mean, look, at the end of the day, a lot of this is based on the team that Jeff assembled. I think one of the big things that Jeff brought to that was giving everybody enough rope to choke themselves. His view is just, okay, we're going to all play within the sandbox as fair as software, but just described, it takes a lot of different permutations. Jeff likes one particular thing, but he wasn't seeking to control everyone. Instead, he was looking to give people the chance to really bring their strengths and flourish. And I think that is how we all sorted this out ourselves over this journey. And so giving us all the latitude for that and really feel a sense of ownership. I am figuring out my strategy, but making it work in a way that still connects with the firm. I think it's been a huge strength. It's also a brilliant component. Scaling anything that's great is this empowerment of finding, attracting more talented people and then actually empowering them and allowing that to be part of the growth engine. But I want to come back and just underscore one thing you said earlier, which is how sometimes software doesn't line up with the venture model. There's a lot more to the story, but I think one really critical factor to Mark Leonard starting Constellation Software was this realization that whether he was more focused on the long-duration multiple on capital possibilities of some of the businesses, the vertical businesses that he was software businesses, he was attracted to. But I think it's just so interesting for all of us to make sure we're stepping back, and do we have the right kind of structure, or the things we're targeting really aligned with our structure and our giftings. One of the things I want to ask you, talk to you a little bit about Jeff and his power alley. What would you say about your investment philosophy? How is it evolving over this first decade with Insight? One of the things that stands out to me, knowing you just prior to you joining Insight, is that you're a guy who's got both feet firmly on the ground. You're not the prototypical venture investor that's just wanting to buy a bunch of lottery tickets. So how do you square that circle? And how, if at all, did your investment philosophy and approach evolve in order to be able to embrace what has been just an absolutely extraordinary opportunity? But you really needed to become more of, I would think, to become more of a believer in the art of what's possible, as opposed to somebody who maybe is always focused on the downside. No one's going to ever accuse me of having my head in the clouds and waving the pom-poms too big and loudly, although it's often a big piece of technology growth investing. So I think you just gave us the image for the podcast. All right, cue the pom-poms. I'm sorry, do you remember? Rich Wells, the software's just... First of all, thank goodness. Thank goodness this is where being in a place that fits you is good too, because there's so much software is so deep and it's been growing and we're exposed to it in such a big Broadway because of our deal flow, because of that boil the ocean and we're seeing everything that's out there. That's provided the latitude to make a lot of mistakes. And ultimately, I particularly as I moved from really just trying to be a good contributor, but ultimately there was a partner that was leading this and I was supporting them as a co-pilot or the mid-level or whatever the different roles are. As I moved to trying to truly lead on my own, you're first of all just running around trying a lot of stuff. And also at this time, we're coming out of the financial crisis where there weren't, in some ways, there's some loose corollaries to today where there's only so many things that were growing. And so what you were seeing is everyone was, there weren't that many parties and so everyone was showing up the same party. And I lost a few deals. I wasn't willing to pay the price or I think there was one where I was just outmaneuvered. And I mentioned it last year, the one where Mike Cannon-Brooks sent us the term sheet with Excel's name blacked out and said, you want half of this? And I'd spent years building a relationship and I'd gotten all the selling, the palm-waving part. I didn't get it right inside the walls. And that multiple would have been higher than one of our big winners at the time was trading in public market SolarWinds. And what I should have done is thrown a massive tantrum. And I didn't. You just had hard learnings across all these different things. And then you're sitting in a bunch of software companies too, because we're taking majority stakes in some of them. You break it, you own it. And it does change the mindset versus as a minority-only investor, where you're really advising someone who is in charge. A majority investor, you do the same thing, but ultimately you got to figure it out because you own it. Is there a particular deal or inflection point where you finally felt like you had your feet under you? As you were going through that period, you're the full pilot. Maybe you're out maneuvering a couple of deals. Yeah, I think it finally came together. I had been standing up my own team for a couple of years, and then we're coming out of the financial crisis. And then finally there's this one deal, it's a company called Kinzer Software. Founders name was Chris Hester, based down in Texas. And we were competing with, I think it was Bessemer and Summit had teamed up. And I'm like, you know, this is real competition, and we're doing all the things. And I'm pulling in every help, internally I can get. I'm getting the head of our consulting group, I'm getting one of our long tenure partners involved, like Peter, I gotta borrow your white hair, come on. Peter, God bless him. That's one of the beauties of the culture of this place. Okay, I need you on a flight tomorrow to come with me. Okay, fine. And Chris chose us. And I just remember afterwards, I said, well, why? He's like, I thought it would matter more to you guys, particularly you. What I was figuring out as part of that was the kind of entrepreneur that I connected with and the way I was going to be able to effectively compete. Again, it goes back to figuring out that genuine, the phrase, fake it till you make it. It's just not me and I cannot have like an aversion to it because I think the better path, my path has been figure out what works for you, figure out how that connects with the opportunity and make all that sick. And frankly, it's easier to talk about this now in retrospect. What I was doing at the time is I was trying a bunch of stuff, I was running my face into walls and I was pulling back and not giving up and keep going. That was the point where it felt like everything was a little snapping into place a little bit and it started a great run. You finally feel like, I remember in retrospect, it felt like, okay, I finally got that win. I felt like I went on a winning streak. Would you say that part of that evolution has been from more of a value-oriented investor to growth? So often we see this, obviously, classically with how Charlie Munger influences Buffett, and the history of Julian Robertson and Tiger, and so many of these great growth investors, they do start with a strong value orientation. I don't think they ever lose it completely. But maybe just say more about how you operate in a space where you really, I think, have to often convince yourself, this is not going to be a good deal primarily because of the price I pay. So we're Insight, we, in some ways, 2.0-ed this, but it originally started with, for us, it was Summit DNA, but Summit DNA came from TA Associates. And what they would do is, they were the first private equity firm to pick up the phone and start cold calling. And then it was basically a TA spin out with Roe, Roe versus Kevin. And you would have said yes on that competition. If you would have backed them both, you would have been great. But a lot of what they did is they made money on the buy. Because effectively, what they figured out is, wow, by picking up the phone and finding companies that weren't looking for money, we could buy stock in growth companies and pay cash flow multiples for. Honestly, they were in the money day one. Because that multiple was a rational multiple based on that snapshot. And the reason why most people would pay those kind of cash flow multiples for business at the time is they didn't grow the way software companies, and most of what they did was software at the time. We still had a lot of that. And part of the reason I lost, I couldn't bring myself to, wait a minute, this price is nuts. But what if I kept growing? Now, that's a trajectory. You can widely coyote you that pretty well and run yourself right off a clef. For me, what that meant, and a place like Insight, where we're pretty wired into the substance of a software company. And what that allows us to do is understand, all right, these are the things that matter. These are the things that, you'd like this not to be broken, the patient will live and you can fight another day. Instead of making money on the buy, you're making money really on the growth. And then starting to figure out, when is that a good bet? And yes, I'm going to pay a price that, if it doesn't grow, it's going to feel high. But if it keeps growing as it is, as it can, as it should, and in the scheme of risk reward, if that plays through in different ways, if I can make good to great returns against that, that's phenomenal. And because of that connectedness to the mechanics and workings of a software company, you'd start to get a sense of, is this a real risk or is that a theoretical risk? Because there's a lot of theoretical risks. Well, like if you're in a business school class, you're like, well, that's a risk, that's a risk, that's a risk. I'm like, yeah, not really. Rich, one of your other early winners with Shopify, talk about it in the context of some of the things you just said around growth versus valuation. In retrospect, it looks like a complete home run deal. But you were there cleaning that growth round. The company was small and they hadn't had much funding. I think it was this 2013-ish. How do you win the deal internally, externally and even inside your own head? How does this, now that you have momentum, you have confidence, you get the Kinzer deal done, what was it about Shopify? There's some luck in this. Back in 2010, so before I won Kinzer, what I thought was going to be a win, and we had a handshake on a Friday, and I had grabbed Jeff Horan, we had gone out to Los Angeles, spent time with this, we had a handshake and a deal. I remember Jeff giving me the way to go afterwards, and then the following Monday, got the call. Yeah, we decided to sell the company instead. This is a company called Magento. We had been founder, owned Bootstrapped, it was the next-gen shop. It basically is what Shopify, a lot of ways Shopify is what Magento could have, and maybe could have been. It's really inspired to be. But instead of doing a deal with us, they sold to PayPal. And I had learned a lot about that market, learned a lot about what was good, what was not good, looked at other competitors in subsequent years. I thought it's just a market that I know a lot about that I can't do anything with right now. I just put it on the shelf. And then we had observed from outside that Shopify seemed to be doing pretty well. My colleague, we worked together for a long time, Matt Gatto. He went up and visited, spent a little time with Tobi because they wouldn't tell you anything on the phone. Said, okay, we're going to do our Insight thing. We're going to go show up. And he came back like, look, I still don't know any numbers of the company, but there are a bunch of people there. This is what he said in the pattern track. We just kept in front of them, kept in front of them, kept. And then it was right around Halloween of 2013, and I got a call from Toby. And he said, so we're going to do around, it's already half spoken for, because we need to maintain majority Canadian ownership to get some R&D tax credits for the Canadian government. So that's how Ontario teachers were going to get half of it. And God bless them. It's funny to talk about Toby optimizing and thinking, being majority Canadian is also a big thing for Toby too. It wasn't just the tax credits, but I'll tease him with the tax credit piece. But there's still half the round. We have a long line of folks here. And you guys stuck out in our meeting and we talked to you, because you know a lot about this market. You're talking about Magento, and no one really knows about it, because it got sucked in the PayPal, eBay at a really young age. And that's interesting. And I asked our board and investors, what do you think of these Insight guys? What do you think of this guy, Richard Wells? This is where luck comes in. It just so happened we had a better be lucky than good. We had some friends that were there, and then folks that I'd worked with. So we said, I got to get this deal done. I want to get this done, because I got Black Friday and Cyber Monday coming up. So if you could get this done in two weeks. And said, okay. And actually, internal, once you got in there, it showed up in the number. It was for a while, it was the, I used that memo as a training memo internally, because it was so simple. It was so easy. You looked at how they were growing. You looked at the quality of growth. When I would fly around to a couple of their offices and hang out with Craig, who is their CMO, he ended up becoming CPO as well later on. Toby and Harley and the rest of the team, it was just a lot of little things, which summed up to culture, a way of working. I had no idea what would become, Toby didn't know what would become, what would have ended up. But Toby would say, look, I think I can double the company based on this, and then I think I could double again based on this. And you look at it, you're like, yeah, you see all the evidence for that. So the price we paid was the price that was there. It's what the market said it was going to be at the time. But that's how we got that shot. And for a company like that, that's the generational company, one of 10 to 15 generational cloud companies that have been built over the last decade, 15 years. The goodness was very clear even then. One of the things we talked a little bit about at our software conference a few months ago was just how software, particularly those who may start out in a more vertical nature, find ways to expand the TAM and how payments has been a common theme. Maybe talk a little bit about that, how you have helped companies, whether the Shopify example is useful or others, just go from what seems like a very good, interesting but capped opportunity to building out a bigger dream. Yeah, I think when I compare what Shopify figured out to small business shopping cart software, it was not a new idea. There were other folks who had done that before. And the mistake that people had made is they all started caving in on themselves once they got to about 50 million of revenue. And that's what I mean when I say Shopify looks so different because at 50 million revenue, if anything, they were accelerating. And you're like, why? The classic mistake that people would make is they keep adding more product to try to cross-sell. It sounds very rational, but at the end of the day, the customer only had so much wallet. You can only buy so many things. And then the best customers, you kind of sell them out to some extent, and they keep growing their business, and they'd actually grow out of you. So you had no way to share the success of your best customers. And you ended up pushing a rock against the hill. It was just getting steeper and steeper in terms of being able to add cross-sell. So that's what Shopify figured. When Toby talked about it, it was not a, oh, I have this vision of this is what the customer needs. He was obsessed with friction. They were constantly cycling to reduce complexity, to make it easier for a customer to get up, running successful, have their business be successful, and they were just rolling out payments. And we're like, why'd you do that? Look, we just keep producing friction. And then you get to this one, he pulled up his signup screen. He gets to this one part called payments. And the best we can do is a pull down for across all these gateways. No one understands what that means. I don't understand what that means. We just have to do it. It's the only way we're going to conquer this. And then by the way, it does have the benefit of us being able to succeed with our customers. Look, I think a lot of vertical software, I think we talked about this with someone else earlier today. I think vertical software is phenomenal. It's also often, it's a vertical. By definition, it's going to be a finite market. What Shopify figured out, first of all, Shopify has got a great vertical. It's retail, it's 5-10% of the US workforce works in the retail industries. Another classic example of this is Toast, which, by the way, another 10% of the US working population works in restaurants, most of them small restaurants. But what they both were able to do is tap into this and succeed alongside their customers, reduce friction for their customers. It's a value prop and a win-win that's let them unlock a lot more value in a vertical market. And that's why those companies are independent of public. There is an aspect of that service tight and just what public is an aspect of payments to that business. I think it's tough if you're not. We've been a part of companies that have been able to add payments and others. The beauty of this, you don't have to be a public company. Chuck Gordon is founder of a company called Storable that we were a part of before it became a software company, actually. A very young company we invested in 2013. We ultimately helped Chuck diversify the software, bring in private equity money to do that. And now, the company is over 100 million in pre-tax profit. It will stay private. It's still private. My guess is it will stay private for maybe forever because it can harness that cash flow more effectively in the private markets. They wouldn't achieve that level of scale if it was just software. They built a broad technology stack that includes payments, includes insurance, includes a lot of other things. What perspective do you have on how to keep the good times going? And that can be for the firm itself, for your own learning, and maybe let's throw out, we're at the 30th anniversary of Insight. Let's go to the 25th anniversary, because that's pre-COVID, pre the most recent downturn, and you're 15 years into Insight. You've got this winning streak going. You've learned so much, you're running teams. What else is there at that point? I know the firm manages something like 90 billion now is a little less than. How did you guys keep the culture going? And most importantly, just for you, that learning curve? Starting with Chris Hester and Kinzer, and then for that nearly 10-year run, it was busy. I think someone had said, no one ever tells you, I think this was actually a section of ours who said this, Rick, no one ever tells me it all happens at once. What did Rick tell you? I don't think it was Rick. We can mis-attribute it here, Rick, if you want. The only thing I remember from our time together, Rich, is our good friend Tomas, when he laid out the difference between the chicken and the pig at an American breakfast and described the real difference is that the chicken's involved, but the pig's committed. Yes, of course, a reference to the eggs and the bacon. That's what I got from Harvard Business School. Yeah. Put that on your degree. I got some overpriced wallpaper and something about a chicken and a pig. Look, yeah, it's all happening at once. You're starting a family. Rachel, at this point, had finished her PhD for her. She was a professor. So she's a young mom, she's a young professor. I'm flying around doing all this stuff, trying to make things happen, making these decisions, trying to help build these companies because they are still pretty raw when we get involved. That's a big part of what we do, is help these companies grow up into the company that can sustain growth at scale. So it was just really full. And yeah, it did finally reach a point where I looked around, and this was around 2020, towards the end of it. You just look around, you're like, I just remember someone pointing this out to me, and then I actually did the math. I'm like, I guess you're right. If I have a big investment go, that doesn't really move the track record. It's just a weighted average. Once it gets big enough, it doesn't really move. And on the one hand, that was, oh, that's nice. And the other hand, oh, now what? And yeah, I know I had been added to get the effective promotions and to investment committee and management committee, whatever it is. And then Rolloff has talked about cap gains. And I think he talked about how he wrote, it's such a great, I love it. It's so great. It's so nerdy, but it's also so great. Like 10 to the nine. What is that? Oh, billion dollar cap gains. OK, got it. Then it became 10 to the 10, because you had 10 billion. I remember when I heard that, I was like, oh, I got to go add it up. I'm like, oh, yeah, no. Then, yeah, that was about there. There's still a lot that had to be realized, but no, it was about there. So yeah, no, that was a question. Now what? For the record, I'm at 10 to the two, and Paul is at 10 to the three. So we're neck and neck right now. A lot of parts of the army. Look, man, it's a roll-off phrase, not mine. So life has a way of showing you the way. And ultimately, it's changed a lot, but it had to. This is early January of 2021. Pandemic is still around. I think the kids have been back in school, but I think they were virtual for the beginning of the calendar year again because of one of the flares that was happening. So we were in our shore town, and I was just walking around, doing what I was doing, walking around on the phone. And I kept getting these texts, and usually I don't look when I'm walking around on the phone, but I happened to look down my phone to see what time it is, and I saw 15 texts from Rachel. And so I click on it, and she says you gotta come to the local ER right now. And we discovered she had a brain tumor, and we discovered it was the type of brain tumor you don't want to have. Stage four brain cancer called glioblastoma, it's the same cancer that killed Bo Biden, killed John McCain, and killed her dad about six, seven years prior. So we got her to New York and had a great brain surgery team at NYU, and got the tumor out and really saved her life. But we knew what it meant that, again, this is not the kind of cancer you want to get. It changed a lot. Ultimately, what ended up happening is Rachel had nine phenomenal months. You would have never known any newer Rick. I mean, you would have seen no difference than Rachel for nine months, then for another five months. If you saw her, you'd say maybe she's a little tired, and she spent a little bit more time in bed just resting. And then her last four months were rough, and she passed away in June of 22. Rich, I'd love to ask you to just, if you would, spend a little more time sharing about Rachel. I know this is extremely difficult, and yet I also know that, gosh, first of all, I know how proud she is of you, and all that you have done to continue just being an incredible husband and father. For me, my distinct memory and the word that comes to mind with Rachel is light. I just feel like she was always just a radiant light. She had this kind of somewhat of a juxtaposition. On the one hand, she was just always love, and bubbly, and kind, and happy. She loved music. She loved going to concerts. And on the other hand, she was like very serious about serious matters. She had a real social justice concern for others, but particularly those who were marginalized. And a lot of times, I don't know that those always go together in a person. You're either angry about things, or you're ambivalent and happy. But she was both, and that's at least the impact that she had on me from time that I was fortunate enough to get exposed to her. But just maybe say more about what she was like, what she was passionate about, who she really was as a person, and obviously as a life partner. You nailed what a lot of people's experience of her was. And I think the root place of it all was that heart, was this genuine love she brought to. She just loved people. She loved people in all the ways. Her major at college was psychology and a minor in English. And the common thread there is it's people. Literature is just exploring the human experience by a different form. Psychology is the science explanation. What the heck are we doing the things we're doing? But she was just a student of people. Jackson and I would joke that we hated walking down the hall of school with Rachel because it would take forever. Because she had to stop and talk to every single person. But it wasn't a, oh, how you doing? She's having a genuine, authentic connection with every single person she was talking to along the way. She was radiating that warmth. When she got sick, people came out of the woodwork and she was really open about it. She would share her journey and she would radiate in the warmth that all those people were bringing to her. At one point, I was just like, oh my gosh, I married George Bailey from It's a Wonderful Life. Because literally, Jimmy Stewart gets in trouble, everyone comes running, no question. That's what was happening. That's for the record, she was a lot prettier than George. She was much prettier, thank goodness for me, thank goodness for my children. She contributed their change for the gene pool. For some reason, I was her greatest project, and she really taught me how to see people. Again, a lot of my instincts from how I grew up is to bear down, work harder. I was coming from a business and investment world where you had to go make things happen. So maintaining that humanity, seeing people for where they are, teaching me how to be a parent, there's still moments, moments today. I was talking to Rachel in my head, I don't know what I'm doing here. I'm beyond fortunate and grateful that she came up to me that one night in the library at Penn until we met. I was with a, after she passed, on the advice of somebody, I joined a widows group, and ended up being widows. It was a group of folks that had all lost someone at an age younger than you should. We talk about, on the one hand, we're so unfortunate, but on the other hand, how lucky are we that we were able to find our great love and have time with them? And that's the way Rachel, I think, would encourage me to look at it. Doesn't always feel that way. It's always hard to stomach, but I do think that collectively we believe that the truly great learnings come in the fire, come in the struggle. What advice just would you have for those who hit these low points, these crucible moments? Even if it's just going back to how you, with your limited time, once you and Rachel knew that the time was limited, how you reordered your playbook for life. What pivots did you make? What became so clear in those moments in terms of the things that mattered and the things that didn't? But just maybe just share all in the spirit because at some point or another, most of all of us face these tragedies. We always hope that we don't, but there's tremendous value and I think, if you're open to it and just sharing how you and Rachel and the family just have navigated this. It wasn't always. I definitely that first spring. I mean, I hit true rock bottom a few times. I want to say it's the great struggle. Knock on wood, you never know what happens ahead. I know it was this time was a great struggle. And I did know a couple of things. Rachel and I did know a couple of things pretty soon on. We knew we were going to have to get experimental with this kind of cancer. So I had to learn a lot about science. My last science class was like an 11th grade. I didn't do very well. And now we had to get it like experimental biology to figure out which experimental treatment would try to maximize her life. Rachel had retired as a professor at this point and was really the CEO of our household. I had to become lead parent. And then for the kids, so Kira just turned eight, Jackson was 11. And we knew that we had to stack up good days because every day that was a good day with mom was worth its weight in gold. So it was really, really hard, particularly at the beginning. What ended up helping me a lot was a couple of things. One was a book that Rachel just shoved in my hands and said, read it. And it was called When Things Fall Apart. It's written by a Buddhist priest and had a number of Buddhist stoic principles in it. So there was one line in there that said, sometimes the greatest thing you could do, and I'm paraphrasing, but sometimes the greatest thing you could do is just keep moving. And that really helped because honestly, biggest thing I did a lot of those days is I just kept going. Another thing, so at this point, I started supporting a couple of charities that really helped the veterans from the War on Terror. I was very familiar with a lot of stories of veterans who had gone through a lot. Sometimes it would be traumatic injuries, physical injuries. Sometimes it would be mental health issues. And I'd heard a lot of stories on how they went through that. And there was just basic things. Don't self-medicate. And a lot of these guys, unfortunately, are starting from a tougher starting point than I was because they're already being heavily medicated due to their injuries. Fortunately, I wasn't. But don't self-medicate. Get out of your head and into your body. For me, that was through exercise, just regular exercise. And there were some days where just the making yourself work hard outside, force your body to breathe in more deeply. It's as silly as it sounds, but it would often be the thing I needed to get through that day to keep going. And the last thing that these veterans often talked about was finding a new mission. I had a mission. I had to go do this. I had to work this problem as best as I could and learn about these things to keep Rachel healthy as long as I can. I needed to finish the job of raising these two kids. Going into it, if we had theoretically had this conversation before all this happened and I was seriously thinking about my identity, I would have probably connected it very much on my job. It's just a career-oriented person. This kind of career tends to be very heavily encompassing. It's a big part of your time in your life. And I just remember thinking this at one point. I'm not identifying with what I do as a career as much as I would have thought. I had to think practically about maybe I had to walk away. And it didn't trouble me in an existential way than I would have thought. And that kind of surprised me. It's so broadly applicable, but it's also counterintuitive. And that is, I could almost tell you were uncomfortable saying this on a recording, like not identifying as much with your career as you thought you should. I have felt this at times in my career, guilt association with that. And yet, I do think that the clear truth here is it comes back to some of these, I think, more spiritual teachings around what happens when you're able to release things, what happens when you're able to let go. And I just think anybody out there who can come to terms with the fact that you don't have to be tethered 110% to your career, so that to the point that everything else gets extracted, you can actually come to terms with recognizing that it's actually not that important in a way that extends the runway of being able to find joy in your work. Not because it's the only thing and you have to have it, but because you have finally put it in its proper place, which is this is a creative expression of how I can serve others and how I can find joy in my day-to-day and be productive. These are all things that as humans, I think we're very much wired to want, to crave, to get satisfaction from, as opposed to just clenching tightly to some career progression. A big way of looking at it is thinking of things as a journey versus trying to get to a certain. For me, it was getting to a safe place and I just had to live in. It wasn't going to be safe and even now today, raising the kids on my own. You can't have a 14-year-old and 12-year-old putting you through the ringer every day and feel like, oh yeah, no, I'm nailing this. But I consume tons of biographies. I consume your guys' podcast concern. Some of your guys' pals' podcasts are great. But remember that this is a moment in time often in the retrospective. Most of, if you go through the lived experience, people are just trying to figure it out as they go along. And if you can get yourself to a place, and look, I'm not perfect at this. I have bad days, I get down, I have problems, I don't know what I'm going to do. And it's okay that I don't know what I'm going to do. Just because I don't know what I'm going to do now doesn't mean I won't. It just means I don't know now. And that's okay. That reminds me, I spoke in prep for this conversation. I had a conversation with a mutual friend, Jeremy Lynch. Now, one of the things that Jeremy said about Rachel's, he said that Rachel always thought that your superpower was your capacity for growth and adaptation. And I'm just hearing this story and thinking about, oh my gosh, sure, as a technology investor, that's a great trait to have. But for all that's been asked of you in these last number of years and all the pivots you've had to make and all the realizations you've had to come to in a very difficult context, I just have to think that ability that was in you was a big part of wading through it. And again, I'm sure most of the time, it didn't feel like there was anything about this that was a success. But what you've experienced crushes most people. And these things are hard to recover from. And I just think there's a great learning in this. For others, they go through moments and life experiences that you just don't think. And I think that capacity to adapt and that capacity to find growth when you need it the most is just so critical. I'd love to just maybe transition back to current times. And this could be what work looks like for you today in this bit of a reset. And also just get us up to speed on Insight and your views on software. I know a lot of people listening to this are thinking, okay, software ate the world. Now what? Could it possibly keep going? So maybe we could talk a little bit about just what life looks like today at Insight for you, for your work, and also just for the software industry. Look, sitting here today, if I look back, we tell ourselves this all the time. Thank goodness we chose software. And how fortunate of mine is I joined this firm focused on growth software when I did in 2005. We just finished coming out of the financial crisis, decade-long plus or minus expansion cycle. A lot of it was the best kind of expansion cycle. It was steady. If you go back and you do a chart of, everyone likes to look at the software multiples of the last couple of years, and basically it looks like a big zigzag up, and then down, and then back. But you're missing something. Rewind that back 10 years prior, and you'll see this long, steady slope up. And that was what was happening. All these markets were getting bigger. All these trends that we've talked about were materializing, and Insight was investing into it, fortunately. And then we had a bubble at the end. So now at this point, we're a couple of years into that, partner Ryan called it the Great Software Reset, and we could see where we are and what we have. And there was definitely a period of time where you could see that contraction, the pace of net new ARR being added by, it went negative. And now it came back and now you can see where we are. And look, I think the 1920, 21 vintages are just going to, they're going to be pretty darn gnarly. And I think success in those vintages is really going to be based on, does an investment firm have ownership? Maybe depending on who you're talking to, and I only know so many names, so maybe I need to go to my toes, but you can count them on your fingers and certainly you can count on your fingers and toes. These are companies like Databricks and Wizz and Scale and Ramp, Stripe, Canva, those types of things. And even outside of software, you have companies like SpaceX or Andrew. And if you have ownership in those, like real ownership, they're going to have a bunch of stuff that didn't go right, but you're going to have that and all that's going to make it okay. And if you don't, that might impact your viability, particularly on a relative basis, because there's a lot of impaired companies in port-foil. So you just go through and look, we're not immune. There's a lot of software companies, 20, 50, even 100 million or plus ARR. They're not growing that fast, they're growing less than 20 percent. Burn money, the underlying economics don't seem to work. And unfortunately, with a bunch of them, they were born and grew up during a time where capital was really abundant, free and you didn't have this critical tension. And honestly, a lot of the boards stink. They're not giving critical advice. And so... What's the playbook for these? I think a lot of these just sit there. The best were going to be bought up by private equity firms. If they could be add-ons for existing platforms, new platforms, people like Tom Bravo is going to have a great target set in terms of what they do really well is going into companies that have a disconnect between where their growth rates are and what they're trying to get their growth rates to be. And they make that work. For us, I think it would be probably companies that look a little bit more like some of the things we historically do around growth that have a good growth trajectory and just really need to have one simple cap structure versus a more complicated one. But I think a lot of them just sit there. I think our strategy, I think it ends up coming down to, and a lot of this is just informed about what we have done over the years. Because we boil the ocean through our outbound, we see the entire software market. Entries was totally right, thank goodness, software ate the world. When we talk about thousands and thousands of software, we can see where growth is really happening. It's not just in the investor speaker, on the information or tech crunch or whatever it may be. And then our deal flow combined with the flexibility we bring, I think really allows us to follow the market and take it as it is. Look, I think at this point now, we have some very time proven sources of Alpha that, like some of the other examples I talked about, they're actually linked to not just the success of the individual stock pickers, but linked to assets of the firm, our sourcing, our value-added resources, our flexibility. A couple of months ago, we had the good fortune of spending some time with you at the Joys of the EMS Conference down in Florida. And one of the topics that our friend Joe Schmidt from A16Z talked about with a few folks is just this idea of, within vertical market software, is AI a friend or foe to vertical market software? And the framing really was, most of the VMS companies we were talking about are well established. They have distribution, if you want to put it that way. And I don't think we came to an answer necessarily as a group. I'm just curious with you all are learning at Insight right now on AI as it relates to future investments, but also you refer to Insight's onsite team has been around for a long time. How are they using some of the new AI tools there to help your portfolio companies? There is so much that's work in progress and experiments being tried and things that are starting to work internally. We're using it for our own data collection on the market, for our own internal sourcing teams. I know we're using it across a variety of the different specialization areas, whether it's go to market, on the sales side and marketing side. It's interesting too, when you see the various opportunities and startups come up, we can have a practitioner view on it. This is actually working in our portfolio and what's not. I think the short answer is we don't know, but it's going to matter. Have fun with the not knowing on that one. That's what Rick keeps saying. I thought he was going to have an answer. The value is in the data. And one of the things we are seeing even with some companies that aren't in our portfolio is, we talked about this a bit in some of the dinner conversations at the conference was, people are turning to their system of record, their key software provider in saying, we want the value prop of AI, can you deliver it for us? I think that is the opportunity. One of the things that has persisted over decades in the software world is the skepticism that it continued to persist. And here you are, Insight just raised Fund 13. I think it's the largest fund you've raised. What's the message, the high level message to investors about why invest in Insight and software more generally for the next decade? I think when you step back, high quality growth software companies are still the best businesses in the world. Believe it or not, 2024, we talk a lot about how rough it was and lack of distributions. And look, we definitely saw that impacting our fundraising, and we were out there talking LPs. Previous fund actually is not our biggest fund. Previous fund actually was bigger, so this is smaller than that. It's bigger than the fund we'd raised, all the funds we'd raised before that, but now it's smaller than the 112. But one of the things that happened for us is it was our close to our biggest year of liquidity ever, which is very counter-narrative. Strategic still wanted to buy high-quality software companies. These are not putsy strategics. This is MasterCard, it's Visa, it's Salesforce, it's SAP. Private equity firms, we know the folks that work at all these places. It's our cowboy guys. These are people that are very serious. They study things very closely. They take very careful calculation of risk. And they bought a number of our high-quality software companies, like JAMA, like AMCS last year, and a big chunk of Tricentis with GTCR. That is still there. And I think for us, we talked about Databricks in a special situation, but in a lot of ways, we have a number of really cool pieces of alpha that I think have come out from the institution that we built. So whether it's because we're boiling this ocean, and there's still companies like Wizz being built, before that Monday, before that Shopify and Qualtrics, we're stable to find those companies. Most of those are being built outside the Valley, at least the ones that we tend to work with, although Databricks, again, is special situations of the Valley, but most of these others with minority growth are happening outside. And because of our sourcing and a window in the market, we're getting there faster. It can be like a half second faster. It's really tight, but they weren't able to fill in the crevices, the capital markets that happen around software. We call it venture buyouts. Love is a need. But it's really growth equity. We will find these companies that are great growth equity, minority growth, that would be minority growth equity investment, but like the deals way back when would say, the minority stake doesn't really work, but a majority could work. And I personally love those. That's been a big chunk of what I've done, because you get all the benefit of growth, growing markets, growth products, growth trends, all the fun of building. You have to not be afraid of doing the company building. A lot of the classic growth equity investors are like, whoa, wait a minute, you break it, you own it? That's totally fine. We're very comfortable with that. And you can shape that company building and be more purposeful with it and not have to go through cycles and cycles of board conversations or decision making. The decision can be made in a tiny table like this with three people. Makes sense? Okay, let's go. And that's been an awesome source of alpha for us. And that's sustaining. And then another piece is we call them buying bills, but again, it's something I alluded to earlier, where it's a company in a product market that might not be quite enough pop on its own for that product, that market for growth equity. Or a pure, you can't make it work just on the organic growth of that one individual product, not one individual product market. But then you just look around and you're like, what if they built that? What if they bought that and that? And what if that guy that's good in that geography came together here and, wow, that'd be a cool company, right? Yeah, let's go do it. That's another great source of alpha. Look, thank goodness software continues to eat the world. We're able to get exposure to some of those things that will continue to impact software through owning and being investors in. Some of these important vendors that people are going to go, customers are going to go to and say, can you give me the AI? That AI, please give it. And then we're also going to be able to see a special company like Databricks that's exposed to all that, have a unique opportunity, and just, thank goodness, we have this kind of capital. We could back up the truck to the scale we did. As we come close to the end of this master class on software, and we're not going to get into all this today, but you've thrown in so many nuggets throughout the conversation about other learnings. I'm picturing one of the first things you said was that bookshelf in your childhood home, and somehow that curiosity has carried you through. That's going to be a big takeaway for me today, whether it was trying to figure out what firm you're going to be joining, somehow you threw dumb luck, picked software as an industry, through all the times with Rachel and course managing teams here at Insight. I'm just curious if you could leave listeners out there just with some other ideas on the big influences on you from an investment or personal perspective, you mentioned a few books, but me on Jeff Horing and Jake Reynolds and others, you mentioned any other readings or people that have had a big impact on you, maybe you'd recommend others to look into? I think a big piece of what I had here, I'm forever grateful to Jeff Horing. I mean, he's given me the space over the last 20 years, figure this out and go on this journey. And then over the last three or so years, Rachel got sick and after. Not every leader of a high performance, scaled investment firm would do that. And you talk about people and influence, I'm just eternally, it's with so much gravitate. I read a ton, I listen to podcasts a ton. Biographies is always something I'm consuming. I am a regular listener, a few guys, of Patrick, of David, and some of the acquired. One of the thing that I love about them is how they open source their research. So actually, I've gone into, and David does this for some of it too, I've gone into that open source and listened to that Kobe interview or listened to that rare interview with Bernard Arnault. And it's helped get me exposure to things that a big part of building this muscle is starting to apply it and see the patterns across other things. Back to some of the military stuff. There's just basic things, so you gotta weed through a bunch of his military stuff and his user interface is pretty tough and mean, but actually, it was Tim Ferriss who found Jocko Willink. He's awesome. And a lot of their learnings, it's some of the best learnings about just the practicalities of leading other humans to try to accomplish something I have taken away. Rachel would tease me about that though. She's like, oh, of course you wanna be tough and mean. You know, it's like, no, I hear you. But listen, it's also really good. But yeah, whether you're going from the Buddhist priest with Things Fall Apart, from Strengths of Strength to Jocko, I mean, it's covered a lot of real estate there. Rich, this has been just awesome to spend this time with you. I know, you know, do this kind of thing frequently. I don't think I've done it ever. I don't think I've ever done it. Well, that makes this a double honor. Seriously, I mean, just as- For you. As somebody who's known you a long time and respected you and admired you, this is just a special treat for me. And one thing that does stand out just more on the personal level is how much right now in this reorientation that has been pushed on you in this reset, all the ways in which you've reoriented in order to honor Rachel with all the things you're pouring into. And I know we didn't even scratch the surface with some of the things, philanthropy and some of the outside. And best thing you do that the causes that you support, I just think it's a really beautiful thing. And I know she does too. And I just want you to know just how proud I am of you. As a friend and how grateful we are, help folks connect dots and help them keep moving. As you said earlier, just really appreciate your time. Because you knew Rachel over those years, I really appreciate them. Thanks, Letty. Thank you. Keep going. Thanks, Rich.