This is On Shifting Ground. I'm Ray Suarez. For Politics Watchers, 2024 was a busy election year. An unpopular president bowed out of the race. There were two assassination attempts on a former president, once again a candidate. It was anything but ordinary. One theme was consistent throughout the year, the assertion that democracy was under threat. With some political analysts arguing liberal democracy may already be in decline. Many pointed to the resurgence of Donald Trump, others to the erosion of both political parties and the coarsening of American society. Throughout the year, Jonathan Rauch weighed in on whether democracy is waning. And before the election, he wrote articles in the New York Times and the Atlantic about the risks of MAGA's political dominance and how the Republican Party could build a future without Trumpism. He joins me now to discuss Trump's re-election and how he feels today about the health of our Republic. Jonathan Rauch is a senior fellow in the Governance Studies Program at the Brookings Institution and the author of eight books and countless articles on public policy, culture, and government. He's a contributing writer at the Atlantic, a recipient of the 2005 National Magazine Award, the magazine industry's equivalent of the Pulitzers. His interests are wide and varied. He's authored research on political parties, marijuana legislation, LGBT rights, and religious liberty. He's the author of The Constitution of Knowledge, A Defense of Truth, A Rallying Cry for the Importance, The Essential Nature of a Shared Reality. Jonathan, great to have you with us on Shifting Ground. I'm honored to be here, Ray. Well, the Roman god Janus, who gave us the name for next month, looked forward with one face and back with another. Let's start by looking forward. How do the next weeks and months look to you right now? Well, I look ahead with great apprehension. I don't think American democracy has been as troubled and as endangered as it is today since the 1860s. Why do you say that? This was an election where the victor got a majority, got more popular votes than his opponent. He seems to have won clearly, fair and square. What put the pressure on democracy? Well, that's exactly the problem, Ray. People like me spent the last four years warning that Donald Trump and his MAGA movement were set on fundamentally undermining important guardrails like the rule of law, like not weaponizing the Justice Department, like following the instructions of courts, like allowing the civil service to run on the basis of merit and not on the basis of patronage on and on. And the voters looked squarely at what people like me had to say and they rejected it. They said they preferred the Trump way. We know from what we've been told by the MAGA movement over the last four years that they want to emulate what president, prime minister, I should say, Viktor Orban has done in Hungary, which is to steadily erode the rule of law in that country. And I think that's what they're going to try to do. And it's what the American public said it would allow them to do. So yeah, I'm worried. Is the next Trump White House one of the final pieces of a kind of interlocking puzzle? Fizo in Slovakia, Orban, as you mentioned, in Hungary, Maloney in Italy, Wilders in the Netherlands, Le Pen in France. Should we be looking at Donald Trump this time, not as an American outlier, as he seemed to be after the 2016 elections, but all of a piece in a wider global pattern? Yes, we certainly should. This is part of what's very concerning. We're seeing a global retreat from liberal democracy and a global movement in the direction of autocracy and what's called patrimonialism, which is where leaders run the government as a family business. We just saw yesterday, as I speak, the fall of the German government. France essentially doesn't have a government. The Japanese government is very weak. All over the world this is happening. Democracy, liberal democracy hasn't been in such a bad way in at least my lifetime. I look back to the 1930s, where that kind of crisis was occasioned, not only by the instability that followed the First World War, but a crisis in capitalism too. The Great Depression pushed a lot of democracies right to the edge because people thought, hey, you guys can't deliver. I, every so often, go to the polls, I vote, but you guys can't do what I need you to do. Wasn't part of the spirit of the 2024 balloting in November just that personifying? It was a very ordinary election in 24 in which voters decided, based on standard issues like immigration and primarily economics, especially inflation, that they wanted to change. This was the third change election in a row when the incumbent party was thrown out. So, yeah, in that respect, this was business as usual. It's the economy, stupid. The difference is that this time, the candidate that they treated as ordinary was extraordinary, someone who had actually attempted to overthrow the United States government and constitution. So that's the difference. It's the toleration for a kind of candidate that would have been seen as outside the bounds until very recently. Did voters look at January 6th, other pieces of evidence, and just discount it? Or did they not even get to that level of analysis? Was it just, I'm unhappy, this guy says he's going to fix it. You know, I think it's mostly, I'm unhappy. I think that Biden's presidency is a failed presidency. I want to change. This guy's the change. I think actually a different Republican candidate, someone like Nikki Haley, would have just wiped out the Democrats instead of edging through by 200,000 votes in three states. So yeah, I think they just wanted a change, and this guy presented a change. And what we've learned is something that the founders originally warned us about over 200 years ago, which is that the public is amenable to demagogues, that it's not really the public's job to worry about the fine points of the rule of law, how the Justice Department works, and impeachments and limits of power. That's not their job. So they did their job. I think people like me didn't do our job in figuring out how to persuade the public that there are certain things that a democracy just can't allow, trying to take power through violence and malice. In 2016, when Donald Trump was starting to pick up momentum, starting to run the table in the Republican primaries, party pros assured me that he would be kept on the rails, that the institutional party would crowd in around him and make him a more normal Republican president than he appeared he would be. They were wrong, but interestingly, that wasn't even a conversation anyone had anymore in 2024. Yeah, yeah, the Republican party belongs lock, stock and barrel now to Donald Trump and the MAGA movement and its traditional Republicans who are now on the outside licking their wounds and trying to figure out if there's a way back. Is there? You know, I don't know, Ray. The answer in other countries seems to be that, and in the United States in the past, seems to be that if a party loses three elections in a row, it will do a serious rethink. But that's what it takes. That's what it took for the Democrats to go from Mondale and Dukakis and Jimmy Carter to Bill Clinton, a centrist candidate who threw away some of the old chivalrous. Republicans of course just won a big election, and they never think that they lose elections, because any election they lose by definition is stolen. So you tell me what it takes to bring this party back. I wrote an article in the New York Times with a co-author Pete Wehner, in which we said really the best hope now for normie Republicans is to form a kind of coalition outside the Structural Republican Party, a kind of party in exile like the Free French of World War II, dedicated to an insurgent movement to take back the party. But that's a long road, and it's a hard road. I'm not even sure how many of those normies of any consequence, of any heft, are still around. A lot of people, certainly on Capitol Hill, have simply switched flags and say now things that they never could have imagined saying into microphones and into TV cameras earlier in their careers. Well, there aren't as many as one would like, but there are still enough normie Republicans around, I think, to form a base and to begin developing positions and candidacies and start raising money. Remember, MAG is not going to be strong forever. It's making, I think, President Trump, President-elect Trump is making a lot of promises that he can't keep. He's got internally contradictory policies, like lower prices while raising tariffs. He's appointing people to the cabinet who, frankly, don't seem to know what they're doing. They just don't seem qualified. And so there will be opportunities pretty quickly, probably, for the public to start looking around and saying, OK, what's the alternative to this? And the trick is going to be for Reagan type Republicans to be ready when those moments happen, to have an agenda or several agendas, to have an organization. Vice President Pence is working on this right now. He's actually started a group that is putting together an alternative agenda based on Reagan principles. And that's exactly the right thing to try to do. I would have agreed with that analysis right out of the gate. Were I not so worried about the effect of self-correction, the belief that when people can see that a set of ideas, a set of propositions either are not true or don't work, they will say, wow, that doesn't work. Those are no good and say, no, I don't want any more of that. And we've just been through a cycle where no amount of actual proof, no amount of actual demonstration of the weakness or irrelevance of ideas got people to abandon those ideas. You're right, of course, Ray. It's a very steep hill to climb, but remember a couple of things. One is, as I said before, that I think Trump was a weak candidate. This was a Republican year, and I think this was a close election because there's a certain percentage of voters, not huge, but probably 4%, 5%, 6%, who might have voted for another Republican and made this a true landslide election. So it's not like he's not turning off people with his strange behavior and his cruelty, his norm violations. And the other thing to remember is Democrats went into this election with a president whose approval rating was about 40%, give or take. That is just terrible. Historically speaking, until 2024, the president's approval rating was basically the ceiling on hell well that president or that vice president would do in seeking reelection or election. Kamala Harris blew that ceiling away. She came in at what, 47.5%, almost 48%. She came in six or seven points above where the limit is supposed to be when you're starting with that much of a deficit. That tells you, I think, that there's something to work with here. You're not going to get the hardcore MAGA people. Of course, they are really committed to governing the way Trump wants to govern. But I think there's enough other people out there who are in the middle, who are concerned so that if they're presented with a viable alternative, someone who is fresh and different, someone who looks like they can solve their problems, someone who can be a strong center-right voice without doing crazy stuff, I think they'd probably go for it. But, you know, you tell me, right? Well, you know, I've really, in my career, seen such an incredible shift in the Republican Party that I'm not sure what a Republican is or what Republican principles are any longer. So what is it that, what is the banner that people will rally around? Just a label, a name, an identity? What is it that people are looking for when they say, oh, I want to move away from a magified Republican Party? To what? I don't know, Ray. I wish I did know, but I'm sitting here at a desk in Washington, staring at a computer monitor, and these ideas are going to come from the ground up. There's a healthy side of the MAGA movement, and it's not the part that has to do with Trump and the rule of law. It has to do with the fact that the United States remains the kind of democracy where it is possible for people to be heard, and it is possible for grassroots movements, whether you like them or not, to arise. You know, I wasn't necessarily a huge fan of the tea party and certainly not MAGA, but on the other hand, the gay civil rights movement was a grassroots movement, gay marriage, which I participated in, civil rights. So you and I aren't going to come up with whatever the answer turns out to be. It's going to come from the grassroots, and it's going to come from candidates that may not even have emerged yet. But our job, at least my job, is to try to do what I can to surface the ideas and the people who will make a positive contribution and be a safe pair of hands for the values of our Constitution. Were Donald Trump's cabinet picks a sign, a symbol of the final nails in the coffin of that old Republican party that we're talking about, the theorists and personalities that had such a big role in our economy and in our military in the 80s, in the 90s and slightly beyond? These picks are completely some of them, not all of them, you know, Marco Rubio for Secretary of State, no one has any problem with. But the picks in the agencies, the so-called power agencies, the one that have law enforcement, intelligence, military and so on, the ones that use force and coercion. Well, what President-elect Trump is signaling there is that there's one criterion and one only, and that's loyalty to himself. And he's deliberately choosing people who are way outside the normal zone of qualifications because he doesn't want people who have preexisting reputations to guard and equities, you know, in the form of stakes and expertise. He doesn't want Rex Tillerson, who's always been the head of Exxon Mobil and can go back to being that and is in a position to quit and use his prestige. He wants people who have no reputations of their own except for being a little weird and who owe everything to him. So that's what he's trying to do at the FBI and what he's trying to do at National Intelligence and so on. And that's just something completely different. There is a word for it. Political scientists call it patrimonialism, where the only thing that counts is loyalty to the person in charge. Government is a family business. We haven't seen anything like that in the United States since pre-Civil War, the days of patronage under Andrew Jackson and the like. Some pollsters, some political scientists, have identified hard-core, make America great again-ers, as a minority, even of the Republican Party, of Republican-identified people. But they are the most faithful, the most militant, the most aggressively pro-party. Is that just a consequence of there being a Donald Trump? Once he's gone, does some of that evaporate on its own? The real answer is we don't know, because we don't yet live in a post-Trump world. But here's how I think about it. This is from another article I wrote in The Atlantic, which is that you can find something very much like the Trump movement in the George Wallace movement of 1968. Wallace is an insurgent. Turns out he appeals to 20 to 25 percent of the American electorate with a very populist message, economically populist, nationalistic. He's not a racist in 1968. That's not how he runs for president. You get the start of a George Wallace movement, which then goes away for a while, but resurfaces under Pat Buchanan, and then to some extent resurfaces with Sarah Palin. What happens under Trump is those voters are always there, and they seem to be 20 to 25% of the electorate. But they consolidate and concentrate within the Republican Party. So when they're spread out across the parties, remember Wallace ran as a Democrat, and then he ran as an independent, and then he ran as a Democrat, but when they consolidate in a single party behind a candidate, suddenly they're not just 25% of the population, they're half of a political party, and it turns out the half that can capture the primaries. The $64,000 question, now that the Republican Party is the home of the Wallace vote, and those people have tasted power, they've run the government, what happens to that constituency without a leader like Trump? I have been wrong, and willing to admit I've been wrong, over and over and over again during this era of norm-busting, because I thought that there were many fans of the president-elect who, when another threshold was crossed, would finally say, hmm, you know, I like this and this and this, but oh, I don't know. I've been wrong, I'll admit I'm wrong, but is there a point at which it all just becomes too much? A cabinet of billionaires, self-dealing, laws that just are crafted to benefit very narrow constituencies that leave you out, do you finally say, huh, this isn't what I voted for? Well, Ray, I wish I knew the thing that baffles and dismayes me most about where the country is right now is that I thought there were some limits, and I thought those limits would include trying to overthrow the US. Constitution and stay in power illegally. I thought surely if anything would disqualify a candidate for president in the public's mind, it would be doing that, and it didn't. So the only honest answer I can think of is so far we have not, or maybe I should say, President-elect Trump and the MAGA movement have not yet found the limits of voter toleration. So, again, you tell me we're in unchartered waters here, dangerous unchartered waters. A stress test is coming, for sure. Oh, it's here. Jonathan Rauch is author of The Constitution of Knowledge, A Defense of Truth, and a contributing writer at The Atlantic. Great to talk to you. Fantastic to be here, Ray. As we close out 2024, let me say what a joy and a challenge it's been to bring stories from around the world to this audience for almost seven years, first as co-host of the program, and in recent years as the sole host. There's been Russia's creeping invasion of Ukraine that burst into all-out war, the armed Palestinian group Hamas surging over the border with Gaza into Israel, killing and kidnapping, and unleashing Israeli retaliation that continues to this day as the violence has spilled over into Lebanon and Syria. And the Syrian Revolution chased Basar al-Assad out of power and into exile. A global pandemic chased us indoors, making shopping centers, offices, places of worship, subways and buses empty and odd, turning grocery stores and pharmacies into places where you now check the distance to the next customer, developing a better sense of just how far away makes six feet. We talked to undocumented immigrants, DACA recipients who were living in limbo, unsure they'd achieve legal status to live in America, who plunged in as members of helping professions, working in ambulances and emergency rooms across the country. Once a set of COVID vaccines came online, an economic divide split the world into haves and have-nots, as we heard from Asian and African countries about restrictions on movement to hold the coronavirus at bay until they could afford enough shots. Right-wing politicians led surging movements in Brazil, Italy, Germany, Hungary and France. Britain left the European Union. Poland chased its right-wingers out of power. China sought to pull its economic might into harness and reached out to the developing world with its globe-straddling Belt and Road Initiative. Ethnic Armenians lost their struggle to control a chunk of Azerbaijan and fled to Armenia. From post-colonial tumult and civil war, societies in West Africa tried to pull themselves together. Mexico loosened its restrictions on abortion. El Salvador chose an authoritarian leader and staked its future on Bitcoin. Chileans voted to toss out a Pinochet-era Constitution, but had a tough time writing a new one. We tried to help you understand a world of crisis and suffering, and also the work people all over the world are doing to make that same world a little more just, a little more safe, a little more survivable. While being unstinting and unsentimental about the hard work of building better societies in Rwanda, South Africa, Malaysia, the Philippines, we also made sure we took time to shine a light on the good work done every day in places around the world that looks in hope to better futures. Through it all, we've operated from a few foundational ideas. That Americans should know what's being done in their name around the world. That despite what editors and producers and pollsters say, Americans are interested in what's going on in their world. That if we tell you a good story, your eyes don't glaze over, you lean in. Because feeling like the world is understandable, readable, interesting, beats feeling like it's a chaotic, unintelligible mess any day. This is the last episode of this iteration of the program. We hope to return on air and online after a hiatus, after we raise some dough to stay on the air. So we're hoping that instead of a hard and fast goodbye, that we're just saying, we'll see you in a little while. In the meantime, all our old episodes will remain archived, so please continue to download and listen. So, for the last time, for now, you've been listening to On Shifting Ground, produced in partnership with KQED, with funding from listeners like you. Today's episode was mixed and mastered by Matteo Schimpf. KQED's Jim Bennett is our technical supervisor, Jared Sport is our executive producer, Philip Young is co-CEO of Commonwealth Club World Affairs, our music is from Blue Dot Sessions, I'm Ray Suarez. Thanks for listening.