Oh, hey there, Story Pirates Podcast listeners, Lee here. If you think you know all there is to know about the Tooth Fairy, boy, today's brand new story has really got some surprises in store for you. For example, did you know that Tooth Fairies live in air vents? Oh, you did know that? My bad. Anyway, there's a lot more to learn coming up right after a few words for the grownups. I'm very different from everybody. Confusion is the step for curiosity. Okay, that's a really funny idea. We have to send that in. I believe all the things in my story. Human beings are just able to create. The Story Pirates. Welcome back to the Story Pirates Podcast. We've all heard about the Tooth Fairy, right? Missing teeth, money, pillows, et cetera. Well, one of my favorite kinds of stories is when an author takes something that we all kind of already know about and puts a new spin on it. And that's just what today's two sibling authors do with the Tooth Fairy. Here they are to introduce their story. Hi, my name's Duncan and I'm nine years old. And I'm Scotia and I'm seven years old. And we live in Canada. This is our story. The Tooth Fairy Roommate. Department of Making Fairies, now serving fairy number 1328. That's me. I'm so excited to finally get my assignment as a Tooth Fairy. Step into my office, please. Number 1328. Absolutely. I am so excited. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Name? Julia Alyssa. Fairy type? Tooth Fairy. I'm Pat, your fairy manager. Oh, is that like a fairy godmother? No. Now, let's go over the rules from the Tooth Fairy Manual. No need, Mr. Fairy Godmother. Manager. I know all the rules by heart. Here's the thing. I don't care. The form says we go over the rules, so we're going over the rules. The Tooth Fairy is assigned to your family. If your family moves, she moves with you. The Tooth Fairy lives in your house. She lives in the vents of your house. And of course, the number one rule. She can't take teeth that have cavities. Okay, now you're just showing off. Sorry, I'm just really excited about my first assignment as a Tooth Fairy. Well, I'm giving you a......special case. Jennifer and John Johnson have lost their very first teeth, but these teeth are, well... I'm sure they're perfect. Perfectly awful. What was that? Nothing, number 1328. To the Johnson home! We just got to the Johnson home so quickly. Are you sure you're not a fairy godmother? Quite. Now, let's get you moved into these air vents. In here? Tooth fairies live in the vents. Get in there, number 1328. This vent is full of tons of old teeth, but I thought if the family moves, the Tooth Fairy moves with them. Hello? They leave the teeth? Not off to a great start, number 1328. Now, you figure out what to do with all these teeth while I take an extended paid lunch break. Bye. What to do with all these teeth? I know. I'll turn them into Halloween decorations because what's spookier than thousands of teeth? I'll just grab my drill. And install a little light in each tooth. Now, to string some of these light teeth together. This looks gorgeous. I'm crushing this tooth berry thing. I can't wait until I collect my first teeth tonight. It's nighttime. Time to collect those perfect teeth. First, I'll sneak into Jennifer's room. Now, to reach under the pillow. Got it. What? A cavity? Is someone there? Nope. I'm just a fly. Go back to sleep. Okay. Phew. That was a close one. This tooth is still full of cavities. I'll have to try the other kid. All right. I'm in John's room. Now, to sneakily grab the tooth under his pillow. And it's full of cavities, too. I'll have to figure this out tomorrow. It's tomorrow. I'm going to keep an eye on this family from here in the vents and figure out why their teeth are so full of cavities. Mom! Jennifer and I are home. I know, John. I'm the one that picked you two up from school. Oh, right. Mom, we're hungry. Can you make us a snack? Here you go, my loves. Gummy bears, gummy worms, gummy fish, sour gummies, gummy sodas, gummy gummies, and lollipops. Yum! What? This mom is feeding these kids the sugary-est, most cavity-causing foods I've ever seen. Okay, kids, now that you've finished your snack, grab those toothbrushes. Phew, at least they're going to brush their teeth after all those sugary foods. And throw them in the garbage! They don't brush their teeth? Ugh, I have to do something. Oh, fairy godmother! Manager! What do you want? This family eats too much sugar and throws their toothbrushes in the trash. What do I do? What? Can't handle your first assignment, number 1328? Good thing I brought the tooth fairy manual you didn't want me to read from. Ah, yes. Page 152. If your family isn't brushing and eats too many sugary snacks, try writing the parents a note. That's a great idea. Thanks, Fairy Godmother. Manager! And don't thank me. Thank the manual! Time to write a note. Dear parents, give those kids some fruits. Make sure they brush and floss their teeth. Love a concerned person who is definitely not the tooth fairy. Now to drop this through the vent. Hey, Mom, a piece of paper just fell out of our vent. It's a note. What does it say? It's hard to tell. The handwriting is terrible. Something about give kids... It's working. Gummy caramel apples! Yum! No! I'm going to have to take drastic measures. Starting tonight. It's tonight. Time for operation. Brush those teeth. First up, John. Huh, he's snoring with his mouth open. Now to start brushing. I'll just lean in. I'm doing it! Now to climb in a little further to get the back teeth. Oh, no! John closed his mouth. I'm stuck. Help me! Fairy godmother! What now? Hey, where are you? I'm trapped inside this kid's mouth. Oh, boy. As much as I want to leave you in there, I don't want to deal with the paperwork. All right. Initiating protocol 384. Make them sneeze. Protocol 384 completed. Jennifer, wake up! Get in here! Where is it, John? I almost swallowed a fly. Then I sneezed it out, and it flew across the room. Ew, I see it. It's not your carpet. Squish it. How dare you? What is happening? You need to brush your teeth. You need to floss. Do you two realize how many cavities you have? Well, cavities means no money from the tooth fairy. This fly can literally talk. Mom, there's a talking fly in John's room. Oh, my goodness. There's only one way to get rid of a talking fly. By drinking sugar. Love sugar! That's it. I quit. I've had enough of spoiled kids and rude managers. Julia, Alissa, where are you going? Somewhere I'll be appreciated. Las Vegas. What? Goodbye. Welcome to Las Vegas, ma'am. Here's your order of cucumbers and sugarless gum. How did you know exactly what I wanted? That's Vegas, baby. What should I do next? You know what they say. What happens in Vegas? Is you become a dental hygienist. They do say that. The end. We'll be right back after a few words for the grownups. A new year means new opportunities, and if you've been thinking about starting your own business, let this be your sign to take the leap. Of course, this decision comes with a lot of questions, like how do I get started? How do I come up with a brand? How do I sell stuff to people? What am I even going to sell? Well, if you have all those questions, you can take a deep breath, because Shopify's got you. Shopify makes it simple to create your brand, open for business, and get your first sale. With Shopify, you can get your store up and running easily with thousands of customizable templates. No coding or design skills required. All you need to do is drag and drop. Their powerful social media tools let you connect all your channels and create shoppable posts to help you sell everywhere people scroll. And Shopify makes it easy to manage all the details, like shipping, taxes, and payments from one single dashboard, allowing you to focus on the important stuff, like growing your business. The best time to start your business is right now. And with Shopify, your first sale is closer than you think. Established in 2025 has a nice ring to it, doesn't it? Sign up for your $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/realm, all lowercase. Go to shopify.com/realm to start selling with Shopify today. shopify.com/realm. Aren't adventurers supposed to have a specific purpose? What are you doing on this quest? Just meeting strangers? Yep, my purpose is to have no purpose. Though, I sort of find purpose as I go. My basket, it's missing. I have tried many means of defense, but none have yet proven successful. I just wish someone would succeed in getting that darn sword. I am under attack by this ruffian. I want to be big and strong and fight evil. I have hope that if you show up at her door, she might listen. Want to help me yell at them with your sword in a threatening manner? SideQuesting is a fantasy podcast about avoiding the main plot. It follows Ryan, an adventurer who's willing to help just about anyone out, as long as they're not being asked to deal with that scary wizard everyone keeps talking about. Subscribe today on your favorite podcast app. And now it's time for Story Pirates Roll Call. First up from 8-year-old Sloan in California, we have a story called The Famous Streetlight. Have you ever looked at a streetlight and sort of felt like it looked like the light itself was like a head and it had like a long neck or something? I often will look at objects and think, wow, that thing could be alive if you just put some eyes on it or something. Well, Sloan had the same idea because in Sloan's story, a streetlight grows arms and legs and gets to play with its friends and becomes famous. Sloan, thank you for writing a story that I'm going to think about every single time I see a streetlight. Great work. Next up from five-year-old Gabe in North Carolina, we have a story called Museum of Imaginary Stuff. Have you ever been really excited to go somewhere, like, I don't know, a museum? And then when you get there, you didn't realize, but the museum is actually closed and you can't go? It's really frustrating, isn't it? Well, that's what happens to the main characters in this story. They are Mr. Fire, a dragon, and Chip, the bear. And the cool thing is that Mr. Fire and Chip decide to open their own museum because they are frustrated that the museum they were going to is closed. And so they decide to open the Museum of Imaginary Stuff, which personally I think is an excellent solution to anytime you are frustrated. Gabe, excellent work, my friend. And finally, from River, an eight-year-old in Australia, comes my favorite story title of the week. River's story is called Cows That Make Meows. Is there anything more perfect than that? No, it's really fun to say, try it. Cows that make meows, cows that make meows. I love it. River, you're a genius, my friend. Thank you so much for sending us your story. To read all of today's roll call stories, head to storypirates.com/podcast. And now it's time for you to write us a story. And if you don't know where to start, here's an idea. Take a picture of something normal, and then make up a story of what you imagine could be happening in the picture, kind of like this. From Scotia and Duncan, the authors of The Tooth Fairy Roommate. Okay, so Scotia and Duncan, can you describe for me your picture? So it's a chair with a broccoli on it. All right, a chair with a broccoli placed on it. And what's your idea for what could be happening in this picture? The broccoli is named Bob. Yeah. He's on a mountain, that's the chair, and the top of it, like the fuzzy part of it is his hair, and then the other part of it is his body, and he's trying to find his home. You see, listeners, sometimes writing a story is about finding an image that inspires you. Grown-ups can submit stories at storypirates.com, and remember, we respond to every single story we receive. That's it for today's episode. Thanks for listening, and a big thanks to today's authors, Duncan and Scotia. We'll be back next week with another new episode. Until then, stay creative and stay kind. Bye! The Story Pirates Podcast is a production of Story Pirates Studios, executive produced by Lee Overtree and Benjamin Salka. This episode was produced by Sam Baer, Kenna Cox, Peter McNerney, Andrew Miller, and Lee Overtree. Recording, sound design, and mixing by Sam Baer at the Relic Room in New York City. Theme song by Bobby Lord. Roll call theme by Andrew Barbato. Musical scoring by Jack Mitchell. Our head writers are Rachel Wienitzke and David Sidoroff. The Tooth Fairy roommate was adapted by Alexis Simpson. Production coordination by Denise Whartonby. Episode Artwork by Camilla Franklin. This episode features performances by Woody Fu, Kristen Henley, Martha Marion, Peter McNerney, Jack Mitchell, Joshua Nassar, Megan O'Neill, and Brandon Zellman. Welcome to Las Vegas was written and produced by Jack Mitchell. Did you all hear that whip sound at the end of the Las Vegas song? You didn't? Oh, well, check it out. There, did you hear that? It's a whip crack. Why is there a whip crack at the end of this song? Are there like a bunch of horses in Las Vegas or something? I mean, I guess it kinda has an old West vibe, but I don't think there are so many horses that it justifies that specific sound. Who put that in there? Probably Peter. Anyway, let's try something else. How about this? Yes, that's it. Now that's Las Vegas.