History of the The historians will look back, and they'll be able to have a better look at mistakes after some time has passed. History began on July 4th, 1776. Everything before that was a mistake. But I am a pretty strong believer that the past is behind us and the dead are dead and this is our world to make. Welcome back to the Past Present Podcast, where we look at American culture and politics today through the lens of history and turn hindsight into foresight. It's March 22nd, 2024. On today's special episode, we are discussing the release of a very anticipated special new book, Neil's Coming Out Republican, A History of the Gay Right, coming out with University of Chicago Press. I have written pause for wild applause, so. We'll put some sound filters in. Exactly. In New York City, I'm Natalia Melman-Petruzzella, an associate professor at the New School, columnist for MSNBC and author of the book Fit Nation, which is out in paperback this week. And yes, you are hearing correctly. I am in the host seat. We're still figuring out what comes next for the show. But without further ado, let me introduce my co-hosts. Joining me from Nashville, Nicole Hemmer, associate professor at Vanderbilt University and author of the book Partisans. Niki, what have you been up to since we last recorded? It has been a busy year. It's great to see you both. I am busily teaching at Vanderbilt. I'm teaching a class in the 1990s, which has been an obscene amount of fun. And, you know, throwing this conference here in Nashville at Vanderbilt in June. So I've been doing a lot of work on that. And then I've got my center up and running at Vanderbilt, the Rogers Center for the American Presidency. And we've been doing a lot of programming. We're having Rebecca Traister in this coming week. Yeah. So, you know, just keeping busy with work. And now spring has sprung here. So I'm also playing around in my garden a little bit, which is a lot of fun. Well, it was 27 degrees in New York City today. So it was 77 here. Oh, brutal. The Southman. And out in Los Angeles, man of the hour, Neil Young, historian and author of the new book, Coming Out Republican. Neil, how do you feel? I feel wonderful, which is a great way to feel, because that's not always the way you feel leading into this. There have definitely been other moments of feeling panicked and nervous and anxious and like you're going to throw up. But we are currently in our wonderful era. And it's because, like, I'm just getting really busy, like lots of stuff is happening. I'm recording a million podcasts. So if you like hearing my voice, I'm going to be like on all the pods and lots of really exciting ones coming, writing a lot. Your boy is hustling. Like I'm out and about and will be shamelessly plugging for the next couple of months. It's so awesome to, you know, see a book come to fruition, not just a book, but one an important book. But also, like, we've all been sort of gestating together. I was joking that, like, you know, my paperback coming out is very small compared to this. But I almost feel like we've been pregnant together. And like birthing these things into the world. So yeah, I'm just so excited for you. You might not super relate to that metaphor. Yeah. I may not relate to that metaphor. Also, because I just want to tease this, Natalia and I are working on a very major project right now that is not podcast related. So we might want to, like, not play with this sort of pregnancy metaphor too much longer. Could get uncomfortable. Fair, fair. Well, let's talk about the current baby. Yeah, let's talk about the current baby. He's super cute. He came out wearing a suit and tie. Okay, I'm going to stop with that now. But Neil, let's talk about your book. I just want to start with the most, like, fundamental question, which is how did you come to write about gay Republicans? I think it's a good place to start because this is actually an idea I've had in mind for well over 20 years. I think, you know, listeners know I grew up in a Republican family. My first book is about the history of conservatism. But before I went to graduate school and became a historian of conservatism, you know, I went to college. I came out. I sort of changed political identification. I'm compressing life story here, but, you know, in a way that I think was familiar with a lot of people I was going to college with, right? They came out. They became Democrats. You know, they went on with their lives. After college, I moved to New York City and I started to meet a bunch of guys. They typically tended to be bankers or consultants who, you know, were gay Republicans. And many of them described themselves as libertarians. And one particular guy I met, this would have been like around 2000, the early Bush years, told me he belonged to this organization called the Log Cabin Republicans. And I hadn't heard of them at all, but I remember thinking that was interesting. And in fact, in those years, the Log Cabin Republicans were sort of gaining a national prominence during the George W. Bush presidency. And so I just sort of filed it away as an interesting thing. And then, you know, advance a couple of years, I become a historian of conservatism. And I actually had in mind that it might be my second book project. But when I left academia, I sort of again put it back on the backshelf of the mind. Two events in 2019 happened that made it come to the forefront of my mind and that made me really dive into it and do this. The first was Pete Buttigieg running for the Democratic nomination for president, obviously not a gay Republican, but someone who at the time was running very much from the center as a centrist, moderate Democrat, and who's being attacked from the left and particularly from the LGBTQ left. And I actually wrote a bunch of columns about that at the time. And part of that just made me get the sense that we have got to have a different or a much broader narrative of LGBTQ persons that isn't a story of political progressivism. And the other thing is, which is something I write a lot in the book, is in 2019, both the Trump campaign itself and the Republican National Committee did unprecedented outreach to LGBTQ voters and in preparation for the 2020 election. And this built on outreach that Trump had done in 2016 that was historically significant, but particularly with the RNC for the first time ever creating an office of LGBTQ outreach. Now I view all of this cynically, but at the same time, it was enormously historically significant. And I just felt like the time was right to investigate this history. And I went into the archives and was shocked by what I found. And, you know, fast forward a couple of years and the result is the book itself. Neil, it's so interesting that you described meeting these gay Republicans who were bankers and financiers, because I would think that a story like this starts at a bank. Maybe it starts at a think tank, but it actually starts on like the leather clubs of San Francisco. So can you talk a little bit about that, maybe, maybe unexpected origin story? Yes. So and that's the origin of organized gay Republican clubs, which begin in the late 1970s in San Francisco. My book actually begins in 1950 and I begin in the era of the closet. And maybe we can talk about that a little bit. But you're right, the sort of history that leads us to the National Log Cabin Republicans Organization, which is formed in the early 90s and that is the most important and I think the most visible and well-known gay Republican organization and certainly the center of this story. It begins with a handful of organizations, most of which are in California, because these gay Republican men start coming out of the closet and organizing politically because they want to stop the Briggs Initiative. The Briggs Initiative was a state ballot proposal in 1978 put forward by this Orange County state legislator named John Briggs. It would have made it illegal had it passed for any gay or lesbian person to be a public school or to work actually in the state public school system of California. And so gay Republicans really start organizing and forming these clubs. A lot of them have the name log cabin in them. These are again the groups that ultimately coalesce into the national organization almost 15 years later. But in San Francisco, a lot of these guys were very involved in the leather community, were very active in the bath houses. And in fact, the San Francisco Club, which is really the original club of all this because it's the most long lasting one and it's the sort of foundational organization upon which everything is built, is led in the early 80s by this guy, Duke Armstrong. And he is a hugely famous person in the gay leather world. In fact, in the early 80s, he wins Mr. Leather, which is a sort of national competition. But he brings a lot of his leather daddy friends into the San Francisco Club. And they tend to have very libertarian politics, right? They don't want the government to, well, in the words of sort of they said over and over again, and the motto for a lot of the clubs, stay out of our bedrooms and out of our wallets. And I write a lot about that, and especially the way in which I think that that shapes the response to the AIDS crisis in the 1980s. But yeah, I don't think that people would necessarily expect the cast of characters who begin my book to be the ones who are the founders of gay republicanism. Yeah, it's kind of sad that libertarianism and libertinism aren't sort of paired up in the same way that they used to be. Right. Although I do lots of wordplay with that throughout the book, for sure. We look forward to it. Yeah, it is really interesting. I totally agree. If I had first thought about, when I first thought about the content of this book or the topic, like Niki, I would have thought, oh, you know, socially liberal, fiscally conservative, like on steroids, but so different. And so actually one of my questions about the leather community and the kind of like through lines that come out of it, if you're saying that their, you know, ideological world view is kind of like out of the bath houses, out of the bedroom, is privacy sort of the animating reason that you think that gay people flock to conservatism? Like the idea of like, get the state out of my life. Would you say that is that a through line that you see throughout or are there different kind of animating causes at different moments in time? Like talk to me about periodization, Neil. Yeah, well, I'm glad you asked that. It's a through line. It's certainly an important theme. But one of the things that the book really spends, you know, the bulk of its time showing is that there's not one gay Republican, that this is a diverse and wide group. Really, what I'm writing about is more broadly the LGBTQ right, among which gay Republicans and by that, I mean, white gay men, dominate the story. But even within that, there's a lot of diversity and, you know, the central question of this book is really a simple one, which is that why would an LGBTQ person or specifically why would a gay man be a Republican? And the answer to that is, you know, a sort of basic historical thesis, which is that it changes over time, which is to say that the closeted men, many of whom are working in the halls of power of Washington, DC in 1950s Cold War era, Lavender Scare, those gay men are Republicans for a very different reason or their Republicanism looks different than the folks we see in the 1970s who are part of the leather community or other things in California and the sort of libertarianism that motivates those folks to come out of the closet and to stake their political claims in the 1970s and 80s. They're very different from the folks who come after the HIV AIDS crisis in the 90s and especially the 2000s of the George Bush years. And also they are very different from the gay Republicans of today in our Trump era. There are three things though that I think broadly unite this very wide and diverse political constituency. The first is a devotion to fiscal conservatism by which they usually mean low taxes, less regulation, low federal spending. The second one is a strong commitment to national defense, usually through an interventionist foreign policy, a well-funded military and also strong support for law enforcement. And third is a fierce devotion to individual rights. Now that notion changes and has lots of different meanings for lots of these folks. But I think privacy is a core component of thoughts about individual rights and certainly is a through line, one of the through lines of this story. Wait a minute, hold on. So the first one you mentioned and the last one you mentioned really makes sense to me. But a strong military and police force, like, talk to me about that. Is that because like America's the closest to a hospitable environment that we have for LGBTQ people, like on the global, you know, in global context? Is that what that's about? And then law enforcement. I mean, if you think about today, there's so many sort of queer groups or groups that identify into our queer banner who are anti-law enforcement. I seem to remember that there was a big controversy and some pride parade recently a couple of years ago, where they wouldn't let the New York Police Department march. You're like, yeah, let me talk. Or is it the uniforms? Because that could be a thing too. Right. I was going to make that joke. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. So national security is an interesting one. Yes, what you said, the sort of core conviction is that the United States is a force for good around the world and that you can point to all these other countries that have terrible records when it comes to LGBTQ rights. This is an argument you see gay Republicans developing a lot in the early 2000s with our military engagements in the Middle East that is continuing right now with the issues in Israel and Palestine. This idea that there are other nations are oppressors of LGBTQ persons and the US backed by the US military is a force for progress, peace and stability. It is the last bastion of freedom. And at the heart of their idea of freedom are sort of the ideas I've already spelled out. So that's part of it. Also, a lot of these guys, especially in the early years, are military veterans. In the 1970s, so many of the original founders of the first clubs have come back from the Vietnam War. And a lot of them came from Democratic families, but they end up in California, as a lot of Vietnam vets did. And they are outraged at the protests they see. And this is part of the radicalization that moves many of them into the Republican category. So lots of military veterans, lots of support for the military. Law enforcement is interesting, because as I write about in this book, the origins, especially in the 50s and 60s, that bleeds into the 1970s of so many of these gay Republicans is the firm belief that the biggest suppressor, and they're right in this, of LGBTQ people, or gay people, as they would say in the time, is the government, right? The federal government that has put all of its apparatus into surveilling and imprisoning and ruining the lives of gay people during the Cold War, the Lavender Scare, and also the work of local law enforcement in every city to entrap and snare and arrest gay persons. And so they believe, again, in a very libertarian way, that the pathway to freedom is not through civil rights, but through curtailing the government's power, particularly law enforcement. Stop arresting us, stop harassing us, stop surveilling us, then we'll be free. However, once those things end, and the LGBTQ left is huge in changing these circumstances as well, but in the 1970s, when you see cities and the federal government starting to end their harassment of gay persons, gay Republicans really change their mind when it comes to law enforcement. Then they see law enforcement on their side, the protector of personal property, of private businesses, the thing that is a guard against the masses and protest and all the sorts of different demographics that they imagine are threats to personal prosperity and community peace and free enterprise. And so they become highly aligned with law enforcement in the 1980s and 1990s as I write a lot about. We all pull up the ladder moment for the movement. Absolutely. I want to go back to something that you mentioned a little bit earlier about the role of the closet in the gay Republicans that you look at, because I think one of the other storylines people will be very familiar with, or at least will know anecdotes from, is the kind of forced outings that happen in the 1970s, 80s, 90s, 2000s of gay Republicans and a lot of the even now kind of speculation about who might still be in the closet. How do you see that fitting into this story? So when I originally imagined this book and when in fact I wrote up the book proposal that I sold, I was beginning the story in the late 1970s with the creation of these gay Republican clubs. And one of the things that I thought, because that seemed like the natural starting point, right? They come out of the closet, they organize these clubs, that's the beginning of log cabin Republicans, you know, that's the start. But as you say, actually in 1980, there's a series of high-profile public outings of two Republican members of Congress. And then that remains an ongoing theme through the book. And I thought, okay, well, when when each of these events happens, I'll sort of do a backstory of their biography and talk about the closet and what it meant for them or whatever. And then I realized I was going to have to do so much back telling of stories as I moved forward in time, unless I began in the closet itself, in the era of the 1950s. And when everyone is closeted, no matter what your political party is, you're not closeted because of your politics, you're closeted because of the conditions of the nation at the time. And that if I started in the closet, I could keep that theme in motion throughout the entire book. Because what you have is even as these men bravely come out in the 1970s, you have an ongoing closeted gay Republican constituent or group that is being outed over and over again throughout time. And so I wanted to sort of have that parallel story of these out active Republican activists who tended to be at the grassroots level and the closeted folks who tended to work from Washington and the different sort of life and personal and political choices that were tied up in that, right? It makes sense that people who are seeking power and who wanted to be visible and perhaps even for their own political career or just wanted to be attached to important and powerful people in Washington, that they're going to live a different life than the folks out in California who have their own lives and businesses and this is part of their activist self but isn't their professional identity. And so that ongoing tension between the out gay Republicans and the closeted gay ones is a central theme of the book. For you as a historian, how did you make those decisions? I'm sure that more recently, there certainly are gay Republicans who define themselves as gay conservatives and claim that mantle because the closet is happily very much in our past. But I presume politicians and public figures of all stripes, there are probably a lot of Republicans who there were rumors about. And so do you deal with that or are you really talking about men? Well, mostly men but I'm going to get to that question in a second. Are you really talking about a group of people who are identifying their kind of political subjectivity as part of their gayness or as you know, as those things of being sort of public and intertwined? I mean, it's the question, did I out anyone? No, but I'd be interested in that question. I mean, yes, yes. Let's start there, Neil. So no, I didn't. I mean, when I was telling people I was writing this book over the last couple of years, though, there was a particular name that came up over and over again of a Southern senator. So shall we say, are you going to out so and so? And I'll let people Google that and they can figure out who it might be if they don't know. And I said, no, this person has never been outed in a way that feels like legitimate. If that ever happens, if he ever comes out or he no longer is living, I would write about him and as I think one can do. But for all the sort of persons I wrote about, they are all outed at some point, except for one person, which I did a very close reading of. And I felt very comfortable speculating or suggesting that he probably had same sex relations over his life, whether or not he had ever adopted a public gay identity. And that is William Rusher, who was the publisher of the National Review and is a hugely important figure to conservative publishing and to the conservative world and who was a lifelong bachelor. And had it suggested to me that I should dig into his personal papers at the Library of Congress, I read his letters and his correspondence very closely. And I do a sort of close analysis of that, along with some other important events in his life and suggest, as also Jamie Kirchick did in his recent book Secret City, that it's very likely he was a gay man. But everyone else was outed at some point in their life or came out at some point in their life. And that was what I really used as the guide. Can I rephrase part of Natalia's question that I think that she was getting at was, and I think William Rusher is a good example of this. Are you writing about people whose political identities were gay Republicans or people who were Republicans who also happened to be gay? You should host this show. That's a great question. And so the answer to that is yes. In fact, one of the chapter titles of my book is Are You a Gay Republican or a Republican Gay? And that question is quoted directly from one of the newsletters of the Law Cabin Republicans, I believe, sometime in the mid 90s. This was an ongoing question of all the people I'm writing about. And there was not one uniform answer. Many of them said they were gay Republicans, by which they meant they were committed to making the Republican Party more gay friendly and they wanted to advance gay rights within it. Now, very sort of narrow definition of those rights, mostly related to non-discrimination legislation tied to employment and housing, the right to serve in the military, and the right to marriage, and that's what it meant for them to be gay Republicans. But for a lot of them, and maybe even for a majority of these people, certainly, I think this was almost like a 50-50 breakdown within the clubs that I write about. They identified as Republicans who happened to be gay. And they said, we want to work to create a world in which being gay doesn't matter. It's incidental. It doesn't matter. And in order to do that, we want to achieve that through the government giving us rights. We don't need rights. We just want them to stop harassing us. So we will oppose anything that's discriminatory, but we're not going to ask for special rights. I mean, they're using that very language. And also, it's essential that we be within the Republican Party, because the worst thing that could happen is that gay people are only in the Democratic Party. And then it becomes a partisan issue, and it becomes an easy thing for the parties to play against each other. But by being in both places, it actually won't matter at all that we're gay. And this is sort of, I don't think a self-negation is the right way to talk about it, but certainly a refusal to, as they would say, engage with identity politics, even as like identity politics becomes something that they often use, but in ways to service a sort of aggrieved conservative identity as opposed to, you know, a gay or LGBTQ identity. So, yes, all of the above. So you've kind of pointed to some of the archives that you were in for this book, but I know that you also did lots and lots of interviews. And I wonder if you could talk to us a little bit about that process, but then also what that adds to the material that you were looking at in manuscript form and those dusty boxes in the Library of Congress and other places. Yeah, it was really wonderful. I was super nervous to do this, I have to say. I mean, thankfully, we got a lot of practice in doing Welcome to Your Fantasy and, you know, cold calling and cold emailing people and say, hey, will you talk to us about your life? But, you know, as historians, like we're not journalists. We tend to like stick to the archives. It was such a rewarding and rich experience and added so much to this history that I kind of can't imagine ever doing a project again without having tons and tons of interviews in it. The thing that I really wanted was I wanted those early folks who were involved to help paint pictures for me. You know, I had wonderful, rich documents, meeting notes, tons of newsletters, correspondence. Those are such rich materials for historians, but I didn't know what those meetings felt like. I didn't know how those people connected with each other. I didn't know what this would have felt like to come to that first meeting. And that's where I really relied on oral history. Now, sadly, there's not a lot of people who are left who were part of those late 70s, early 80s clubs because the HIV AIDS crisis was devastating for gay Republicans as it was for every gay community. And the clubs were devastated with death. And so there's only a handful of guys, but some of them are some of the very most important historical actors. And I was really, really fortunate to get to interview almost all of them. And one of them, I'll tell you about Frank Ricciazzi, was a guy from upstate New York. He went off to Vietnam. He came back to Southern California. He's one of the ones I talk about who grew up in a Democratic family. He's radicalized by the student protest he sees against Vietnam in Southern California. And he's also a banker and wants to start his own business. And he becomes a Republican. And he's still in the closet, but he hears about this club through a friend that's organizing to stop the Briggs Initiative. And he goes to what he thinks was probably the second or third meeting of this club that was meeting in the back room of a bar. Now, I had meeting notes from this club, but I didn't know where it took place. And for him to tell me that he nervously drove to this spot in Los Angeles, that he parked three blocks away from it because he didn't want his car to be spotted by a police officer and to see the license plate outside of the club and to associate with them, and that he walked those three blocks, looking in every direction to see if there were any police around before he entered the club and found his way to the back room where this meeting happened and where no one gave their full name. They either didn't say what their name was or only said their first name. I mean, those were the sorts of details that I never was going to get from a document that helped me actually understand as much as these guys are out, they are still living. I mean, that's a very different notion than the out that I would think of today. And the fear that they had of what they did. They asked for a donation at this meeting to the club. He worked at a bank and he thought, well, I don't want to write a check to Log Cabin, it was called Log Cabin of Los Angeles, because what if someone I know at the bank processes that check and they see, oh, Frank is giving this money to something I've never heard of. Let me look it up and see what it is. So he gave a $5 bill instead. Those again were the sorts of details you can't always get from the archives or from the documents that really you get from people telling their own stories and from making all of a sudden this incredible scene come alive through the history that they remember. It is so rich. It's unbelievable. Like that richness of that tableau that you just set up. I know there's so much more of that in the book, but it's true. You can't get those from the documents. And this living archive of these people is disappearing. And so it's so valuable that you captured that. I know we're talking at length here, but this is what this book deserves. But I do want to ask, you went with the subtitle A History of the Gay Right. And I know whenever we're talking about identity groups, the labels have changed so much over time. So can you talk a little bit about maybe not using the LGBTQ right? Also, relatedly, I know that you worked really hard not just to make this a gay male story. Can you talk a little bit about the naming issue and also about who else is in here besides gay men? Yeah, lots of meetings, lots of emails about the title and particularly about the subtitle, because it's so important and there was a lot that needed to be conveyed through it. One of the most important things is that this is not a personal memoir. So my whole title is really important to work together. I'm having people DM me all sorts of things about like, oh, I didn't know you wrote a book about yourself. I didn't know you were a gay Republican. I'm like, please look at the entire cover. Look at the subtitle. Remember what I do as a profession. So, yeah, I mean, I think I use the LGBTQ terminology in the book. And I actually have a note at the beginning of the book about terminology and that, you know, I, in historical periods, I use the prevailing terminology that was the discourse of the time. And so ultimately, you know, in the last chapters, it's LGBTQ is being used. But this is a book about, as I say in the opening and it's very clear through the course of the book, this is a book that is overwhelmingly about white gay men because it's mostly a book that's focused on the organizational nature of gay Republicans and the public face of queer conservatism, which again has been overwhelmingly represented by white gay men. And so that's what we ultimately decided that it is a book about the LGBTQ right. And also it is a history of the gay right. And sort of, you know, I keep those ideas in motion throughout the book. But yes, it was very specifically chosen what we landed the title on because that is the bulk of the book's focus. Yeah, no, that makes total sense. I know those are really hard decisions. I similarly always go with sort of the language of the day. I'm curious to know, though, talk to me, are there lesbians in here? Are there trans people? Are there other sort of queer identified folks? Like, how did you go about incorporating them or seeking them out for your narrative? Yeah, I did everything I could to make this not a story about white gay men. But at the end of the day, we're historians and the evidence speaks to us. And it was very clear, not very long into the archives, that this is a story. And we're talking about, like, 90-plus percent in these clubs that I was looking at. And continuing to this day in terms of, like, the Log Cabin Republican National Organization itself, 90-plus percent white gay men. I do write about some important lesbians who are involved in the founding of some of these clubs. And they are literally, like, the only one in the clubs that they belong to. And I write very much about the challenges around that. There's different moments in which gay Republican leaders say, oh, gosh, we got to diversify our ranks. We got to reach out to women. We got to reach out to persons of color. But then others will say, like, but we don't believe in these categories as, like, things that should... We don't believe in quotas. Like, one of them says that. We don't believe in quotas. So why would we do that? Like, we're a club. If you want to join, they can. You know, don't worry about it if they don't want to. Like, we're free individuals, right? But these clubs, in a lot of ways, reinforced a white, male, patriarchal vision of how society works that I think is what, you know, in a lot of ways kept these people within the conservative politics and the relationship to the Republican Party that they have. One of the, I mean, the biggest fault line that was at the heart of the question about women and lesbians was abortion. And this becomes like an ongoing debate in the late 80s and the 1990s as I write about a lot. And, you know, you have a lot of lesbian Republicans who are saying we're a party believes in freedom and we're a party that we're a group, rather, that believes in freedom. We're a group that says the government should not tell us what to do with our bodies. And so that should include abortion rights. And there's certainly were some gay Republican men who thought, yeah, we should, this is consistent with our political philosophy. But too many of them said, no, we don't want to take this on because that's a distracting issue. That's not part of our core mission. That's not tied to gay rights. Well, support for law enforcement, views about tax policy. I mean, all sorts of things that they were very much involved in. Their anti-affirmative action efforts, one could say have nothing to do with gay rights or even being a gay Republican. But those to them made complete sense as part of a conservative Republican politics. But abortion is one that they never will enfold within them. And I think that is a huge part of why, at least among law cabinet Republicans, it's been overwhelmingly an organization that is male. It's almost as if patriarchy comes in many forms and is very resilient. The book ends up in the Trump era, and you give a great analysis of some of the splits and fissures and shifts that are happening during the Trump era for LGBTQ Republicans. I wonder if you could talk about that some. Do they remain overwhelmingly white and male? Is there diversification of LGBTQ Republicans in the Trump era? How do they navigate both an administration that is reaching out to them and touting gay members of the administration with an uptick in not just anti-trans politics but anti-LGBTQ politics more broadly? Yeah, lots of splits and divisions in the Trump era. Of course, those go along with lots of splits and divisions more broadly in the Republican Party and across conservatism that we've seen since 2016 and also the reconsolidation of almost all those people into a total Trump MAGA Republican Party that we have today. Gay Republicans mirror and have shaped that very recent history that we're talking about. The divisions and the split-ups that we see among gay Republicans in the Trump era, though, are an ongoing theme of my book. They're always doing this over the 70-year period that I write about, particularly from the 1970s to present in the sort of organized era. These clubs are always breaking in two. There's a libertarian wing that breaks off or a conservative wing that breaks off from the other one. Over and over again, this is happening and coming back together. That is part of the history, but it obviously looks and I think has different political consequence in the Trump era. I write about in 2016, the Log Cabin National Board voted by a very close vote. Within the National Board, they voted not to endorse Trump because they thought, well, all the reasons that you would expect a Republican organization not to endorse Trump. This caused huge, huge outcry in division. Almost all the local and state chapters of Log Cabin Republicans had endorsed Trump. And even within the board, obviously, there was almost like a split even division. And so the pro-Trump base of the Log Cabin Republicans rose up and pushed out the never-Trump folks from Log Cabin Republicans, one of whom is a very famous never-Trump figure, Sarah Longwell. And so there is a small faction of gay Republicans or people who now call themselves gay conservatives or right-of-center gays who remain never-Trump. And I'm thinking here of Sarah Longwell and Tim Miller and, you know, a handful of persons who've been consistent across this time. But as I write about, there has been—the Lockham Republicans went fully in the tank once Trump was actually elected and they became a completely pro-Trump organization, such to the extent that in 2019, the summer of 2019, well over a year before the 2020 election, they gave their endorsement of Trump. And one of the things that I say in the book is that it was a huge transformation of this organization and the larger movement because the organization had long thought of itself as being the thorn in the side of the Republican Party that would push it to do the right thing, that would challenge it, that would call it out. And the history, I think, really shows them doing that to becoming cheerleaders and inside players for Trump. Because I think, as so many other groups and persons understand, the access to power is the most important thing and the accommodation to him and to Trumpism is the way in which one shows themselves as an insider. And that means a particular thing for these folks that I'm writing about because they've always seen themselves, understandably, as outsiders. It's so interesting. So let me ask you a few. We started with a sort of personal approach to this research, and I want to end with at least two questions like that. The first one is, did you change your mind about anything either in your own politics or in your understanding of the history of gay Republicans or politics in general in the course of researching this book? I think, if anything, when you spend a lot of time with people, you come to really... And this is why I love history. When you spend time in the evidence and in the era, you see things a little bit differently. You understand it from a much broader perspective, but also with a lot more nuance. And I think, if anything, I just came to respect and really sort of admire a lot of the historical actors I'm talking about and the things that they were doing across a huge span of this book. As we get closer and closer to the present, I have very different views and I think my writing becomes a lot more pointed and sharp. But when you think of the brave folks who in the 1970s and 80s came out of the closet, like whatever their politics were, like tax policy or foreign policy that I might disagree with, I had to admire the courage that it was for them to come out of the closet, to stake a claim in the Republican Party and to advocate for things that I think are fundamental. And I really make a strong case throughout the book that gay Republicans are essential to, especially, the legalization of same-sex marriage. And I sort of knew that just anecdotally and to the extent that, yeah, I'm a history historian who knows a lot of these things, but I didn't know the depth of which and really the foundational work that gay Republicans and particularly gay conservatives did to set the trajectory in motion that would lead to the legalization of same-sex marriage. Andrew Sullivan in 1989 is writing a cover piece for The New Republic that is titled A Conservative Case for Gay Marriage. This was a landmark document that changed people's minds, including the governor of Massachusetts, William Weld, the Republican governor of Massachusetts. When he becomes governor several years later, he says he will only appoint judges to the Massachusetts Supreme Court who support gay rights and who believe that there's a legal basis for same-sex marriage. In fact, that's what happens in Massachusetts. This document and the sort of intellectual work that Andrew Sullivan and Jonathan Rauch and Bruce Bauer, other right of center gay intellectuals and writers did to in the 1980s and early 1990s, when no American, hardly any Americans believed gay persons had the right to marriage, the work that they did to set that foundation, I just didn't have a full appreciation for it until now. And so I think that that for me was a real, didn't like change my mind, but it certainly deepened my understanding and appreciation for what this history means. I really appreciate that, too, because I think, though, even though you joked earlier on that, like, this is not a memoir. I am not a gay Republican. At the same time, I feel in your writing and the way you're talking about it, how much you realize the power of these people's contribution, even as you don't agree with them entirely, you can respect their commitments in the way in many ways it sounds like they have changed society in a way that makes it better for gay people writ large, but also probably for all of us. I think we all benefit from our laws acknowledging the full humanity of LGBTQ people and gay Republicans had something to do with that. Okay, last question. So maybe that answers this question. But who is this book for? For gay Republicans? Will they hate it? Will they love it? You tell me. I'm so glad you asked. I think this book is for everyone. If you are a student of history, if you like reading about history, if you're interested in politics, this book is for you. You know, this is a book about gay Republicans. But it's really, I believe at its heart, a book about the last 70 years of American political history. It's a book about the modern GOP. It's about the modern conservative movement through the example of gay Republicans. And I think that we've had so many different histories of conservatism and of the modern GOP that have looked at the institution itself, that have looked at the intellectual and political foundations, that have looked at different constituencies of it, including the religious right and libertarians and women and all sorts of others. And I'm really glad to now contribute another study through the example of gay Republicans and to show that even as they worked from the margins in so many ways, they also were working at the center of this story. That they were core, as I show in the opening chapter, they were core to the origin moments of the most important organizations of the modern conservative movement. That they helped build the Republican Party and that they have shaped the unfolding in ways that I think a lot of people will be surprised at. That aren't only about same-sex marriage, but about the much broader political developments of these last 70 years. And so I really hope everyone will read it. Well, congratulations, Neil. It's so exciting. We are so thrilled for you. It's been such a pleasure to be along this ride and to see those, you know, draft word documents that we've seen really transformed into this handsome new book that the world will have in their hands very shortly. So, you know what time it is, people? We want to know. I want to know what's making history for you. So, let's give Neil a break from talking. Please. Niki, what's making history for you this week? What is making history for me this week is a... It was actually making history for me a few weeks ago, but it's one of my favorite books that I have looked at while I've been preparing for this class on the 1990s. And that is a book by Heather Radke that came out in 2022 called Butts, A Backstory. Yes. This book is one of those books where you like look at the cover and it's in like a funny font and it just has a big peach emoji on the cover. And it's called Butts, A Backstory. And you're like, oh, this is a goof. But it's actually like a really erudite, thoughtful, deeply researched, really insightful book. And I want to talk a little bit about the section on the 90s because I found it so so useful and actually taught some some from it for my students as well. She does a really deep dive into Sir Mix-a-Lots' 1992 hit Baby Got Back, second most played song in 1992, second only to Whitney Houston's I Will Always Love You. Two very different two very different songs. And interestingly, the story that I sort of zeroed in on with that is that when the video, which I'm sure you've all seen, where he's like dancing on a big butt, when the video comes out, MTV refuses to air it. And they say that it's because they've recently changed their policies in response to feminist criticism of the network because they would play these videos, like the video for Cherry Pie, which is just like showing different pieces of women, but not actually showing women's faces or women themselves. And people rightfully criticize those kind of videos as being kind of misogynistic. And so this video rolls out and they're like, you're just dancing on a giant butt. This is about butts and this is a violation of our new policy. And Sir Mix-A-Lot actually goes and meets with studio executives and with network executives. And he's like, that is not what this song is about. This song was written because my girlfriend, who's a model, was losing modeling jobs because she has back. And that's unacceptable, especially in the 1990s when super skinny bodies, super white bodies were the ones that were sort of held up as the ideal. And so he wrote this as a celebration of women with particular kinds of curves. He makes a point in an interview at some point. He's like, oh, when I say like I like curvy women, I don't mean women with curves like me, you know, women with a gut. I mean like those snatched little waists and then like, you know, big thighs and a big butt. And so it's just like it's, as they say, a rich text. And revisiting that song in that moment was really helpful for me because there is something that is happening even as that extremely skinny, heroine chic look is coming in as people on mainstream network television shows are rapidly shedding weight and there are real concerns about anorexia and other eating disorders. By the end of the 1990s, there is a new idealized body type that is becoming more mainstream and it's coming out of black and Latino communities. Jennifer Lopez has her first big, huge movie role in Out of Sight and every interview that she goes on in 1998, people are asking her, so what's the deal with your butt? And she's just like, it's big, what do you want me to do? But it starts this kind of movement away from those very, very slim styles of the 1990s and the lionization of a different kind of body that I think has been with us throughout the 2000s and 20 teens. And so anyways, you can tell from how I'm talking about it, like I just thought that it was such a thought provoking and fascinating book and such a good example. It's something we learned with the Chippendales story of how a story that can seem on its face to be very just like floofy and not important. And what is this about? This is just trying to be titillating, can actually be a remarkable piece of sociology and history. So I highly recommend it. It's Butts, A Backstory by Heather Radke. It's such a good cover. And I actually haven't read it, but she interviewed me for it. And I just looked up in the notes, actually, like use our conversation. So I really, I'm regardless of that, I'm excited to read the whole book, but I'm glad that that made it in there. And it sounds great. She's super smart. So, so smart. I just feel like a smarter person having read it. Neil, what's making history for you this week? Okay, apologies, but you're going to get some more gay Republican content because like the only thing I seem to know about these days right now is my own book. So apologize for the log rolling. But I want to talk about something that actually isn't in the book very much, that I was really delighted to be asked by The Revealer to write about. And I have about a 3000 word piece coming out any day now on The Revealer. So look for it. It's a Religious History of Gay Republicans, which is a theme that I sort of touch on through the book, but don't really get to fully explore. And so I'm glad I got to do this here. And what the article focuses on is this particular project that the Loghaven Republicans created in the mid 2000s called the Reaching the Heartland Project. This was in 2004, the year where 13 states across the nation added bans on same-sex marriage to their state constitution during that election year. It seemed like a really bleak time for the future of same-sex marriage rights, and certainly a dark day for gay Republicans who felt like George Bush had come into office as a compassionate conservative and then had spent his time as president cozying up with a religious right, and so these results in 2004 were devastating. However, there was also a poll that came out that same year that showed that what Americans believed about the cause of homosexuality highly correlated with their views on gay rights, and particularly on whether or not they supported same-sex marriage. So for those Americans who believed that sexual orientation was an inborn trait, 79% of them supported the legalization of same-sex marriage among those Americans who believed that homosexuality, believed that sexual orientation by which they really meant homosexuality was a quote unquote choice. Only 22% of them thought that gay people should have the legal right to marriage. And so almost a 60-point differential here. And so gay Republicans looked at this and they thought, okay, here's the answer. We just have to change people's... We have to show them what we already know, what the science has already shown, that there is a biogenetic basis for homosexuality. Now, I won't go into the long history of that. I get into it in the piece, but in the late 1990s, there had been sort of a hunt for a gay gene and some different sort of scientific stuff about this. But basically what this resulted in is the production of a document that they used all across the country. And the document was titled The Only Question That Matters, Do People Choose Their Sexual Orientation? And the document explained the scientific understanding of homosexuality. And they gave this to every single member of Congress. They used it in communities across the country. And particularly the thing that I write about is the way that they use this document to interact with religious groups. They would take this to churches and to community meetings that were gathered with religious folks. And they would present this information along with a bunch of other things they came up with to show religious people that homosexuality wasn't a choice and to start sort of changing minds there with the hopes that this would start shifting public opinion about LGBTQ rights, specifically marriage. Now, I got to interview one of the leaders of Law Cabin during this time period for this piece. And I said, you know, help me understand this. This is a very scientific document and you are taking it to religious communities. Like, what was the thinking here? And he said, and this was something that, you know, was such a smart observation and something I, as a religious historian, should have probably, you know, expected. But he said, listen, this document wasn't for fundamentalist. It wasn't for evangelicals. It was for mainline Protestants. And it was for Catholics. It was for people who weren't biblical literalist, people who we thought were much more open to these ideas, but they just hadn't been presented with them. And so they were sort of not they weren't homophobes and they weren't theologically opposed to this. They just had never been presented a different idea. And so they'd sort of received culturally these notions that like a lot of fundamentalist firebrands had given them because there was no other message that was getting through to them. And so we thought that like in this middle ground of Americans, that's where we had to make a difference. As I show in my book, that is what so much of gay Republicans have done. They've not so much tried to reach Republicans, although that's part of it. But a lot of it was just to reach middle of the road Democrats and independents who they wanted to bring over to a pro LGBTQ side. But they knew that they were best positioned to reach through conservative messaging. And so I write about this, what this means in sort of a religious context. And it was a fun piece to write and really appreciate the great editors at the Revealer for their help in doing this. And it should be out any day now. And I believe the title of it is, though it may change by then, is Reaching the Heartland, Gay Republicans' Message to Religious Americans. Look for it at the Revealer. It sounds so good. There's so many lenses of kind of identity analysis on your book. I mean, we obviously like start with sexuality, but religion, race, class, it's a rich text in itself. Okay. What's Making History for Me? What's Making History for Me this week is an article in Gothamist dropped two hours before we recorded. The headline is Stop the Schtup, Brooklyn Orthodox Women Join Sex Strike to Pressure Husbands Over Divorce. Okay. So what is at stake right here? So first of all, did this surface to any of your feeds? Not yet to mine. I don't have feeds yet. Yeah. All right. Or like your world. All right. So this has been popping up. This story has been popping up in my social media world. And as some of you listeners will remember, I have embarked on a seven and a half year journey of reading the Talmud. I will say that even though in some broad ways about discourse and argument and spirituality, I feel that this project like intersects with my everyday life. But honestly, it feels very distant from most of the questions and the issues that I'm dealing with, like on a day to day basis. However, this story, I was like, am I is the algorithm like targeting, you know, like the me for reading this, for reading the Talmud? Listen to what's going on. So basically, there is this woman upstate or an orthodox woman named Malki Berkowitz. And her husband has for years apparently reported, apparently reportedly refused to grant her something called the get, which is a divorce document that allows her to officially separate from him and remarry. Now, if she doesn't have that document, she can't remarry. And she has something called an aguna. And aguna is a woman who is like attached to a dead marriage. And because reproduction and your marital status is so core to your identity in this environment, you're like in this limbo, which is really bad. Like you're not exactly an outcast, but it is a really bad place to be in the eyes of God, but also in the eyes of your community. OK, so what has happened in this context is that thanks to this Orthodox influencer, self-proclaimed Orthodox feminist and activist based in Brooklyn, her name is Flatbush Girl. She has been calling attention to the plight of Malki Berkowitz and encouraged women across the Orthodox community to go on a sex strike, so to withhold sex from their husbands until Malki gets the get and is released from her marriage. And so what do these women do? Well, no one knows what's actually going on because like no one's going into their bedrooms, much like gay Republicans. I think Orthodox people don't want people in their bedrooms. But one of the things that gives some indication that this is taking off is that not only are there these protests in the street of Orthodox women holding signs that say, Volvy, give, get, free Malki, like holding pictures, kind of like naming and shaming of the husband. But in order to have sex with your husband, after you menstruate, you have to go to a mikvah, to the ritual bath to clean yourself, or he's not allowed by God to touch you. And there's this one woman who runs a mikvah in Brooklyn, and she's like, I actually have much less traffic. I think that these women are not coming to the mikvah because they're not having sex. And so this is happening, which is just interesting in itself. And unsurprisingly, a male Orthodox rabbi, I think they're only male rabbis among Orthodox Jews, speaks up and he's like, you absolutely have to stop doing this. We understand that in some small communities, this kind of pressure campaign has been effective in having a man deliver the get to the wife so she can be released. But the idea that people outside of their immediate social world, like across the Orthodox Jewish community, are participating, this is like deeply damaging. It's embarrassing. It's bad for Jews. It's bad for reproduction. Like stop, stop, stop. And, you know, the people, the women who are standing up for this are like very happy. They say that little girls are asking questions. Why are these moms out in the street? What's an aguna? Et cetera. And so it's so interesting to me because, I mean, one, it's just the universe is weird. Like the Talmud is so long. I just have, I jumped in at the section which is about divorce. And so I like feel like I'm like, oh, yes, an aguna. I can tell you all about that as well as a get. So it feels literally like the news cycle is like crafted to this journey I've been on, which is very strange. But it's also such an interesting mashup of like modern and ancient, right? Like here's a community that is still, no pun intended, wedded to these very antiquated notions of ritual and sexuality and all the rest. On the other hand, like Flatbush Girl and the social media camp is launching a social media campaign. And these women really are articulating a kind of very public, modern, feminist sensibility. So I don't know, I didn't even think about it till I started talking about Neil. It's a little bit in the spirit of like your book of like intersecting identities, like shaking out in the real world in ways you don't anticipate, but super interesting. I hope Malki is freed and can move on to her next husband. And yeah, no more agunas. But yeah, I thought it was really interesting. That combination of traditional practice and social media is really fascinating because it's something that's much more interesting and complicated than like the tradwife stuff that kind of sits at that intersection. Like this is real. And so like I think that an analysis of that intersection is particularly rich. I'm so glad that you talked about that. Yeah, well, that'll do it for this episode of Past Present. Thank you, Niki. Thank you all so much for having me back. This has been great. Thank you. And congratulations, Neil. Thank you. I'm feeling so weird that I talk so much, but you know, I guess it's my moment. Thanks for indulging it. It was really awesome to chat with you guys about it. We're so excited for you. You can help us out by heading right over to iTunes to subscribe and leave a rating, which helps other people find us. You can also become a patron of Past Present through Patreon at patreon.com/pastpresentpodcast. Head on over to pastpresentpodcast.com to find show notes and sign up for our newsletter. You can find us on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter at pastpresentpod. You can also tweet with us individually. Neil is at Neil J. Young 17. Natalia is at Natalia Petruzzella. That's Natalia P-E-T-R-Z-E-L-A. And Niki is on Instagram. You can follow her. I am hanging out on Instagram. That's right. Yeah, you can follow her at at pastpundit. And with that, this show is history. Thank you.