Do you know which country has got the highest tariffs against it? Oh, is it Lesotho? Yes, it's Lesotho. Now you have to admit, that's sort of... Weird. I've been friends with many central bankers over the past 50 years. They come in all shapes and sizes. Some are charismatic, some more unassuming, and some frustratingly enigmatic. Today, I'm sitting down with a man who has never shied away from expressing strong opinions. The implementation of Brexit, the handling of the post-pandemic inflation spike, the current government's fiscal policies, they've all attracted his sharp words. Today, I want to hear his views about the shocking new challenges that now face the world's central banks. The global economy is fragmenting with an apparent coup de grace delivered by Donald Trump's tariff increases early this month. Meanwhile, the independence of the world's most important central bank, the Federal Reserve, is also under threat from the White House. So, how should the Fed and other central banks respond? This is The Economics Show. I'm Martin Wolf, the FT's Chief Economics Commentator. I'm joined here in our London studio by Mervyn King, who was Governor of the Bank of England until 2013. I have known him well at least since 1991, when he became the bank's Chief Economist, and I knew his writings for a long time before then. Mervyn, welcome to the show. Thank you, Martin. Mervyn, I'd like to start with what you've been doing in your now fairly lengthy retirement, and I know that quite recently, I believe, you've been made President of the MCC. So what is the MCC? Please explain this to our listeners, and that doesn't mean you're spending all your time looking at and being involved in cricket. So since I retired, I've written two books. I chair an orchestra, and in addition, for one year, I am President of the Marylebone Cricket Club, the biggest cricket club in the world, which owns Lord's, the ground in London, and everybody around the world who's ever played cricket has dreamt one day of playing there. So what do I do? Well, I've been involved a great deal in the last few months in helping to manage the sale of a franchise being sold off, and a minority stake of 49% was purchased by 11 members of the tech titans, the people who run the technical industry in the United States on the West Coast, chief executive of Microsoft, chief executive of Google, chief executive of Adobe, chief executive of Palo Alto Networks, very bright people who will work with us to ensure that the franchise at Lord's becomes not just a national brand, but a global brand. But this hasn't prevented you being involved in debates on pretty big matters in economics. I'd like to start off with your view of how the central banks, particularly our own, the Bank of England, the Federal Reserve, handled or maybe even caused the post-pandemic inflation spike. You've accused them of suffering from groupthink. So what do you think went wrong? What were the mistakes they made, both in economics and in their thinking about how to approach their job? I think there was an intellectual mistake which didn't originate with central banks. It came from the academic world, that somehow money had absolutely nothing at all to do with inflation. I think the idea that you could suddenly print vast amounts of money and ignore its impact on inflation was just foolish. But what the academic world did was to persuade people that inflation really depended only on expectations. And that led to a mindset in which people abandoned the Friedmanite view that inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon. And instead it became inflation is always and everywhere a transitory phenomenon because the target would always be guaranteed to bring inflation back to the 2% target. That was a big, big mistake because once you engage in QE on the scale that central banks did, then you were bound not only to create a large amount of additional money but lead to higher inflation. And the oddity is that when the pandemic hit, we deliberately suppressed the supply side of the economy. We closed down part of the economy only for a period, but we did close it down. The response to that, to boost demand by doing quantitative easing, was bizarre and it was done on a massive scale. And I think that was, it was a serious intellectual mistake. So I think the damage was done and we're over it. We're back now with inflation within touching distance of the target. So I don't think it's a major issue now, even though central banks, I think, have a lot of work to do to restore credibility in the minds of ordinary people because they did allow inflation to go up. And in the next couple of years, it may not come back to target completely. So there's still more work to be done, but it's not a big issue now. As you know, I had a very similar view of what happened. And I said at one stage that given the enormous expansion in broad money in the crisis period, Freemanite would have said, I would expect the price level will jump. And in fact, the price level jump was in line with pretty well with what happened. So the monetarists would have quite a neat explanation for what happened. And they would also say, well, once you stop printing the money, and it's clear you've stopped printing the money, the price level will stabilize at this higher level. It seems sort of pretty obvious, apparently, to you and me. Why do people in the profession insist that this is all just a set of completely unexpected supply shocks? How do you explain that? It seems strange to me. I think that Friedman was associated with right-wing political policies, and in the university world, that was a deeply unattractive proposition, and they didn't want to associate themselves or to be seen to be pursuing policies that Friedman advocated. I find this very strange, because if economics is meant to be something close to a science, then one shouldn't allow those views to contaminate one's judgment. And what struck me as interesting was that I remember going to Stanford and giving a talk about inflation targets not long after we had introduced our inflation target. And Milton Friedman was there. He retired to Stanford. And he came up to me afterwards. He said, this sounds sensible. He said, you're not going to use broad money as an automatic guide. But nevertheless, the monetary conditions will help to drive the decisions you take. And the inflation target is a way of explaining this. It's not a theory of inflation. And that was the key thing. Inflation targets were not a theory of inflation. It was a guide to how central banks should behave. And he bought into it. But the problem now is that the central banks don't seem to have a theory of inflation at all, because they do not link it with any nominal variable outside their own decisions. And I found it very bizarre that they seem to think that you can explain inflation entirely in terms of real variables. Is there an alternative way of seeing the political economy here, that there were supply shocks, hardly surprising with a huge pandemic of this kind. And one of the easiest ways of accommodating price shocks, given particularly the difficulty of lowering nominal wages, is to let inflation happen. Nobody wanted to say, that's actually what you were doing. You just decided to let inflation happen, because it was the best way of adjusting to what was happening. There's some truth in that. But I think the problem is that, since the Fed expanded the broad money supply at the fastest rate since the Second World War, you would have expected them to ask the question, what is all this going to mean? And they didn't. And I think that was an intellectual failure. And I think you can rationalize some of the increase in inflation through supply side effects and shocks, but not all of it. And I think the teen transitory school of thought at the beginning of this was to say very clearly, we don't need to raise interest rates because these shocks will pass and disappear. Well, we had to raise interest rates by an awful lot in order to bring inflation back close to the target, and it's still not quite there. Just one final question on this. You were involved pretty actively at the beginning with QE, and the Bank of England continued to use QE and so did other central banks. When did you think it went too far? Was it in the beginning of the pandemic or had it already gone much too far before that? I think by the time I left the bank in 2013, that was the time when doing more QE should have come to an end. It was never meant to be a permanent solution. It was introduced in order to offset the reduction in broad money being created by the consolidation of the banking system as they tried to reduce the size of their balance sheets. That was a very clear and explicit justification of what we did. It was the metric we used. That had disappeared within two or three years. I think the boost to QE in 2016 and also then in 2020-21 was a mistake. It's difficult to judge. I support it a bit longer because it still seemed the way to get broad money to grow fast enough for the Freemanite Rule because credit expansion really was badly damaged by the financial crisis for quite a long time, wasn't it? Yeah, it was. I mean, 2013 was five years after the financial crisis peak. And I think at that stage, there would have been alternatives to try and boost demand. Remember that the thing that really displaced the direction of the UK economic strategy after 2010 was the extraordinarily weak performance of the European economy. We had expected that the euro area economy would recover slowly but nevertheless start to recover in the way that we did. But in fact, the European economy was hit very badly in 2011-12. So we were affected by that and that certainly had some impact. But then I think then went away after another year or two. Well, this leads us to the UK. You were probably the only one of my friends that it shows your firm determination to think for yourself, who was in favor of Brexit. Despite this, I think our friendships survived pretty well. So first of all, the referendum went the way you wanted. Do you think we have, on the whole, used the opportunities this has created in a sensible way or not? No, we haven't. I mean, you say I was in favor of Brexit. In fact, I didn't take part in any of the referendum campaign. And I really wanted to point out only one thing, which was that the economic arguments that both sides were using were really pretty outrageous. And I think both sides made the mistake of saying that the voters are basically rather stupid and if you tell them they're going to be worse off by voting for the other side, then they'll vote for you. And I think that is just not true. So I think that wasn't handled well. But the implementation of Brexit has been a bit of a disaster. We started very early on when the government banned the Civil Service from making any preparations for voting for leave. The Prime Minister then resigned within a couple of hours of the announcement of the result. So here we were with no government and no plan. And ever since, I think, it hasn't been handled particularly well. The main point that I felt all the way through and stressed at the outset was that I thought that 20, 30 years after Brexit, its economic effect would not be that significant. Because I don't think joining the common market as it then was, was the big transformation of the UK economy in the post-war period. So I think we'll come through this. And there's lots of scope for cooperation with Europe in areas which do not rely on us going back into the single market or a customs union. So let's move on. You're now Chancellor, let's say. Sir Keir Starmer in desperation decides to get your advice to tell him, what should we do about the British economy? What do you think the plan should be? Well, I think what's clear is that the Labour Party focused almost exclusively on winning the general election in 2024. What seems less obvious is that there was a good deal of preparation for policies to be implemented. Pretty clear nothing. Yeah. And I think this is odd because once you're in office, you don't have the time really to think and devise new policies. So there was a big missed opportunity. And I think the biggest problem that we face is that we have been spending too much of our national income on household consumption and not enough on other things. So clearly a Labour government will want to spend a little bit more on public services. They are going to have to spend a lot more on defence. And this is a major problem. And the ways of dealing with it are first, governments will have to reduce the size of their budget deficit, borrow less. And secondly, households will have to save more. And the best way of saving more is to give them a pension system into which they can contribute and save that will give them security in retirement. And I think that means trying to reestablish a defined benefit pension system based on career average earnings but not linked to employers. And this would indeed then be an incentive to work as well. Because the size of the welfare bill is so large now that it's literally impossible to believe that we need to spend that amount of money to deal with issues like ill health, disability and unemployment. That's at a fairly low level at present. So there are big reforms needed there. How that can be managed by simply adjusting public spending plans by a little bit every six months? I do not understand. And I think the big mistake that has crept in to the way budgets are set, and it's one that irratories could change, is the following mistake has been made. OBR is a good institution and we should welcome it. It's reports. But what it does is each time it reports, it gives one number, one forecast, for four or five years ahead. Currently 9.9 billion pounds is the headspace that the government has against its fiscal rule. And of course, the error in that number is vast. It runs into tens of billions of pounds. So when the OBR produces one number, it is not sensible for the Chancellor to say, well, I've got to trim my spending plans by another 3.5 billion or whatever, in order to hit this number. The OBR should report just once a year before the budget. And there needs to be a plan for public spending over a parliament. And you don't fiddle around with that, you know, just because there's one number has changed a bit. You know, it may well come back in 18 months time. Who knows? It seems to me that part of what is going is the Chancellor really doesn't want to have to make judgments. It's as though they are in politics to avoid making political judgments. I don't think that they would concede that, but their behaviour in terms of public spending is certainly consistent with your description. And I think what it reflects is the lack of a narrative that you can say to people, look, you know, we have built up a lot of national debt over the last 10 years or so. This is a big burden on our children and grandchildren. What we should be doing for them is at least trying to give them a better, a more productive economy in 20 or 30 years time. So many of the reforms that the government wants to introduce will be very sensible, but they won't affect growth in the next two years. They are things that will take possibly 10, 20 years to come into effect. And I think if you want to persuade the electorate that you're pursuing a serious policy, which makes sense, you've got to have a story to explain to them why it is that national debt is too high and why if we're not in a pandemic at present and we're not engaged in an active war, then actually the ratio of debt to national income should be falling slightly, not rising. But none of these things are being articulated and I think they have to be in order to convince people that they shouldn't just look at their tax payments or the benefit receipts. They should understand why all this is going on. Should they be saying to the public, we are going to need broad-based tax increases, recognize that the increase in employers' contributions, the national insurance was a big mistake and actually say, well, things have happened in terms of growth and the demands of public purse, even with efficiencies, we are going to have to actually raise taxes and go for it. I think that the only solution is to say that. I don't think that means that they have to raise taxes this year. I think if you are going to say that one of the major reasons for raising taxes is to finance more defense expenditure, they then need to spell out the timing of that defense expenditure, what years will see the highest increases and put in the high tax rates then to finance that. But the idea that with current tax rates that we can possibly finance some of the improvements in public services that we want to have, to increase public sector investment, to improve infrastructure, to raise defense expenditure without actually raising, say, the basic rate of income tax strikes me as odd. And, you know, why not go back to 1988? We had two tax rates in 1988, 25 and 40. And most economists would say, well, that's not a bad way to deal with our problems of low national saving, need to finance more public spending, and a way of avoiding some of the disincentive effects of high marginal tax rates. So it's time to take a break now. But when we get back, I intend to ask Mervyn about the staggering changes in the global economy we are currently living through, and what it all might mean for the world's central banks. So let's suppose you were sitting in a central bank now, and you heard of the extraordinary increases in tariffs unveiled by President Trump on the 2nd of April. And I'm thinking in terms of the impact on growth, demand and supply, and of course, short-term inflation, what should they be thinking about? It will probably be sensible just to stay calm, keep quiet, and not rush into any immediate response for two reasons. One is that it's impossible to know what the path of this policy will be. I mean, given the recent pronouncements of administration spokespeople, that they are looking to engage in negotiations with a lot of other countries. I think there's plenty of scope for the administration to back away from something which it will realize may not be very sensible and possibly harmful to the United States. And I think if that's the case, then, you know, central banks should be encouraging governments to keep calm, not rationally respond, and to wait and see for the time being what the consequence is. Do you feel that we should be concerned about the possible loss of independence of the Federal Reserve? Well, it's an interesting question. If you had asked me six months ago, I would have said probably not. I think the Fed was very clear on its own position, and it claimed it had strong legal support. I think it's less clear now. There are cases going through the American courts, which will result in a judgment about how far the president can exert executive authority to dismiss people working for so-called independent agencies. That hasn't been finally ruled on by the Supreme Court. It's clear that the executive can intervene in appointments on the regulatory side, and has done so, but not yet on the monetary policy side. That hasn't stopped the president from giving everyone the benefit of his advice on monetary policy. The real test has to be in the courts. That matters a lot in the states. And if the Supreme Court were to take a position that would make at least ambiguous the possibility of the president dismissing the chair of the Fed, that's a big, big change. Yes, that will be a bit concerning. Let me turn to another issue that has definitely been in the heart of discussion about money and the future of money, digital currencies. And in that also, central bank digital currencies. What do you think of this sort of digital revolution in money? How significant it is, and how central banks and governments should be positioning themselves in relationship to this set of innovations? The ability to make digital transactions is central to the development of the economy. But I don't think that requires private or central bank digital currencies. So digital currencies themselves like Bitcoin, Tether and so on, I would not regulate them because I think the danger with that is that it appears that the regulator is giving comfort to those who invest in them. We should simply point out to people that, if you go down to the bookmaker one afternoon and bet on a horse, you win or lose. You don't expect to be compensated for that if you lose. And the same is true of digital currencies. So I certainly would not want to encourage but nor set up a regulatory bureaucracy to deal with private digital currencies. Stable coins are different. Stable coins purport to be dollars or euros or whatever. And we should treat them like Scottish banknotes. Banks in Scotland can issue their own sterling banknotes. But we insist at the back of England that they back them one for one the whole time with English banknotes. And that's what we should do with stable coins. We should force stable coins to be back one for one with holdings of dollars, euros, sterling, whatever. Central bank digital currencies, we already have one at the wholesale level. It's called reserves with the central bank. And at the retail level, I don't think this makes any sense either because most of the transactions I make with my private bank, I do by going online, make a digital transaction, takes effect immediately. Why do I need a Bank of England account? I don't. So what we ought to be doing is trying to make the payment system more competitive and cheaper. And the biggest thing we need to work on is cross-border payment systems where the cost of doing that is very high. But in part, that's because of regulation. Myself, I had enormous difficulty making payments from the US to the UK just because of the bureaucracy you have to go through and the time it takes. But it's all due to regulation. And when we look at what's going on with cryptocurrencies right now and they're sort of being brought into the regulatory net, that sort of reminds me of what happened before 2008. Should we be concerned that we're getting back to the sort of world that blew up? It's not much less than 20 years ago now. With all sorts of innovations, private credit, private equity businesses are really, now it seems to be huge banks. The legitimization of cryptocurrencies, which were created out of thin air and are now supposedly part of the national reserves of the US, are the suckers being suckered again? And should we be worried about this or not? Well, I think we should because when you go back to 2008 and the financial crisis, one of the big practical questions was, which banks should have access to liquidity from the central bank and how much access should they get? Now, I think the big question facing governments and central banks today is which financial institutions they proposed to intervene and help if they get into trouble. I think it's gone beyond banks now. That's what I was making. And it's not just hedge funds or private credit, it's also insurance companies or pension funds, you know, if a pension fund gets into trouble, what does the government do about it? Does it? This is really what happened with this trust budget. And what that demonstrated was that that would have been quite easy to deal with if there had been put in place in advance a liquidity support facility for those pension funds. And the big question is, how far does this promise of liquidity support stretch? Do we even go as far as industrial companies? It's a big question. And I think the dividing line between those institutions to which the government is prepared to lend liquidity support and those to which it's not, is going to be the big issue in financial policy in the next 25 years. One of the reasons I think people are thinking about central bank digital currencies, I'm not saying it's a good reason, is this concern about dollar domination and dollar primacy and the influence and coercive power that gives the US. With the US looking a little less friendly, should we be trying to get rid of the dollar domination? I don't think we can consciously do it, but I suspect it will gradually happen. The big change is a combination of two things in the US. One is extraterritoriality of its judicial system, where any transaction denominated in dollars is deemed to be within the purview of the Department of Justice. And secondly, and perhaps more significantly now, the application of sanctions to holders of currencies of countries that people in the US disapprove of. So it was always said that, you know, the reason why the dollar was so dominant was that no matter what your politics were around the world, you could be safe in depositing your money in the US. The legal system would protect you. No longer. And that is a big, big change. And it explains why other countries are now trying to, you know, produce alternatives to making payments outside the dollar system. But it's not clear to me, it will immediately, you know, lead to a collapse of the use of the dollar as a reserve currency, because there's no obvious alternative that makes you more convinced that your money will be sound in it. The euro has an opportunity of doing that. But certainly not, not China. Yes, I agree with that. Very last question, sort of quick answer. Perhaps this is asking too much. Let's suppose we had avoided the 2008 financial crisis. Do you think the world today would look very different? Well, I think it would look very different in one respect. I think the growth of productivity and economic output would have been much larger and that would have enabled many of the stresses and strains that we've seen result from globalization be much easier to handle. So I think we would not have seen the political movements to hit back at elites, which have had both political and economic consequences. That I think we would not have seen if we had not had the financial crisis. I agree with that and I would make it more specific. I think the fact that it happened and so visibly did itself, leaving aside the productivity, shake confidence in a lot of elites and then the pandemic did it a little bit more. So these shocks have been extremely destabilizing and we are, alas, seeing the consequences today. As you wrote in your recent book, and I think it's absolutely fundamentally important that after the financial crisis, too many politicians were inclined to say, well, we're over it because we didn't get mass unemployment, but we did get disillusionment with our political system for understandable reasons. Mervyn, thank you very much. I very much enjoyed our discussion. I too, Martin, thank you. That is all for this week. You've been listening to The Economics Show from The Financial Times. This episode was produced by Misha Frankel Duval with Original Music and Sound Engineering from Breen Turner. The broadcast engineers are Andrew Georgiadis and Rod Fitzgerald. Our executive producer is Manuela Saragosa. Cheryl Brumley is the FT's Global Head of Audio. And I'm Martin Wolf. Thanks for listening.