Hi, and welcome back to the Market Insights Podcast. I'm Denise Chisholm, Director of Quantitative Market Strategy with Fidelity's Quantitative Research and Investments Division. And today, I'm joined by Bobby Barnes, Head of Fidelity's Quant Index Solutions. Hi, Bobby. Hi, Denise, thanks for having me. All right, but first, before we talk to Bobby about index solutions and factors that he's looking at, let's talk markets. So these past few weeks have seen some extreme rotations and sentiment shifts. And I mean really extreme moves that happened less than 3 to 5 percent of the time historically. So first up, from a data perspective, we had the biggest rotation from bullish to bearish sentiment in the American Association of Individual Investors survey since the Gulf War. So bullish sentiment is now hovering at some of the lowest levels the survey has recorded with data going back to the 1990s. Look, this is significant because sentiment often acts as a contrarian indicator. There is a fairly linear relationship. The worse the sentiment gets, the more likely stocks are to be higher over the next year. Now look, you can think of it as stocks already pricing it in to some extent, or that there just are very many sellers left. But either way, it's extreme. Now that wasn't the end of the extreme indicators. We also saw a spike in implied correlations, observed only a handful of times, and a defensive rotation in to safety sectors like staples and utilities, typically reserved for recessions or crises. And data shows record high uncertainty, consumer sentiment on stocks at recessionary levels, and recession itself as a trending search term on Google. Now look, that's a lot of data points all in a two week span. Much like the sentiment example from the AAII data, as worrisome as it all sounds, if we just look at the statistics, extreme sentiment shifts are more often a sign of opportunity. This isn't to say it's a bottom in stocks. That is to say that the more extreme the sentiment is on one side of the boat, the more likely stocks are to be hired the following year. Said differently, more often than not, certainly not every time, it can be too late to be bearish. Now the obvious objection, Denise, it's different this time. Let's take those recession searches on Google. Some of those spikes, but not all, have coincided with real recessions, like 2008, where stocks dropped significantly more than we've seen. So could stocks be on the verge of a catch-up trade, where they fall to match the perceived level of risk? Now, here's the interesting pattern behind the data. The opposite is in fact more common. When stocks aren't down all that much, at the same time the perception of recession risk is elevated, market returns over the next year end up being even stronger. It's almost like the severity of the drawdown up front tells you how widespread the fear actually is and how much opportunity might be hiding in plain sight. Now, I wrote a note on my LinkedIn, so check it out if you want the details, but when we average some of the data that we're seeing in the Z-scores, the current sentiment shock ranks right up there with March 2020. So in stats speak, we're experiencing a two and a half time standard deviation event, a very rare and powerful expression of consensus fear. Now, when we've seen similar extremes like that in the past, say anything north of one and a half time standard deviations, the forward 12-month returns have averaged 30 percent. So yes, things feel different, and they absolutely are different. COVID was different from the financial crisis, which was different from the.com bubble, which was different than 1998 and 2022. But you always have to ask yourself as an investor, is it different enough to disregard the patterns in the data that have worked despite the differences? All right, that's my take on the market action. So if you've listened to prior podcasts, you know that if given a choice between tariffs being permanently inflationary or deflationary, I actually lean towards the latter, since historically they act as a tax on the consumer. If that turns out to be the case, bonds might be more protective than investors suspect, and dividend yield, a bond-like proxy for equities might as well. But let's do a deeper dive on to that factor with Bobby. So let's start with what's going on currently. Now, during times of market volatility, high dividend stocks typically outperform. We've seen this in the recent sell-off, certainly. Why is this the case historically, and what role can dividend yield play in your portfolio? All great questions. And so the way to think about dividends and their defensive characteristics in the way that you described is that most companies that pay a dividend, they tend to be larger, stable companies, and hence, they are able, they have the excess cash flow to then distribute to their shareholders. And so to piggyback off the term that you used bond-like or bond proxy, if you think about a bond, it's kind of the same thing. You're entitled to a coupon payment, and so unless there's a default, then you're going to get that, and so that kind of provides a margin of safety. In terms of where it fits within the portfolio, it's not a bond, so you're going to get some equity-like volatility that's higher than that of fixed income. But when we look at who buys our dividend products, we always talk about the three use cases of the factors, the equity factors that we provide. So they are people buy them for capital appreciation, downside protection, and for income, or to use their equity portfolio as a source of retirement income. And so where that gets quite attractive, especially when you look over the last, say, 10 years where our interest rates have been quite low, various parts of the cycle, the high dividend yielding products have actually yielded a higher income than that of, say, the 10 year treasury. But on top of that, you also get the capital appreciation. And so that's what makes it attractive relative to fixed income. And for those who are looking for that third use case that I mentioned of utilizing their equity portfolio for income, that's clearly the advantage that it provides. Let's talk about one of the solutions you highlighted. So from an exposure perspective, you and your team created an index solution, the high dividend ETF, the ticker is FDVV. Can you walk us through how you construct it? Yes. The way to think about it is in two stages. So the first stage is the security selection and our approach there. And then the second stage is the allocation. So after we decided which stocks are most attractive, how do we allocate the capital to it? And so starting with the former, which is the security selection, we create a composite model. We look at three things. We look at the dividend yield itself, and then we also look at the payout ratio and the dividend growth. Now, the overall objective is high dividend. So we put the most emphasis on the dividend yield. But the role that those other two attributes play is that they help to avoid dividend traps, where one way a stock can be high dividend yielding if the price goes down substantially, and so if you have a high dividend yielding stock where the payout ratio is low relative to the earnings and the dividend growth has been positive over the last few years, then that's an indicator that it's a high dividend yielding stock that is perhaps able to continue to pay those dividends into the future. And so with those three components, we rank all stocks based off of the combo of the three, and then importantly, we select the most attractive stocks within every sector. And that's a unique feature where when you look at most dividend products, they don't actually choose high dividend yielding stocks from all the sectors. In fact, many products will be naked, some of the sectors, as a result of their selection process. And so we select the most attractive across all 11 gig sectors. So now let's get to the allocation part, which is that second phase. The first step of the allocation is simply to allocate the weight in proportion to that of the broader market sectors weight. And so you get diversification or representation across all sectors, and it's sector neutral is a term that we use internally to describe that. But given that the investment outcome is to maximize the dividend yield, the last step in that allocation is actually a reallocation from the lowest yielding sectors. So we take about 7% weight away from each of them and reallocate them to the five highest yielding sectors, which, we put it all together, has the effect of increasing the dividend yield of our solution by about another 100 basis points. OK, so it's more, in some ways, it's a pure factor approach relative to the other ETFs in the market. Yes, yes. I like to describe it as more intentional. Every feature that I just described has something very intentional that we're trying to produce. And then similarly, when I talked about our sector weightings, and we always think about this versus the broader market, when you look at competing solutions, the sector weightings of the final ETF is somewhat random, whereas ours is very precise. Like I gave you the exact number of the percentage of underweight that we're going to have, and similarly on the top hand side, it's the amount by which we're overweight any sector is very prescriptive and exact. Got it. Let's talk about the overlap with dividend yield. So it does have an interaction with other equity factors, like value or low vol. How do you think about the factor itself? Do you think if it is complementary to those two factor approaches? Yeah, so dividend yield is interesting. I'll start with what one of my former bosses used to always say, which is that when you put price in the denominator of your factor, you just have another value factor. And I agree with that. But it does rhyme with value, but it can be quite different from value as well. Part of the reason is because not every stock pays a dividend. I think in the Russell 1000, only about 60% of stocks pay a dividend, so you have just a little bit less than 40%, so a little bit less than half, that aren't paying a dividend at all. And so what that means is no matter how cheap they get, it'll never look attractive on your model. And so that kind of gives you something that will look and behave at times very differently from value. Another interesting feature about dividend yield is that depending on how you go about searching for those companies, it can be defensive, similar to a low vol inequality, but still be not as low vol as low vol, and not as high quality as high quality, but it can have features that rhyme with that. But then from a diversification standpoint, I think where you see the biggest amount of diversification when adding it to a portfolio that is already invested in other factors is really with momentum. And you get a similar effect when you combine value with momentum. They're kind of at odds of each other where momentum is investing in those stocks that have worked the most. So on average, you're more expensive. Whereas in value and in dividend yield, you're kind of taking the other side of that. And so they can be very complimentary, especially in times like where we're in the year to date, where a lot of the high momentum stocks have sold off. And so as a result of that, high dividend stocks have actually done quite well. So that's a way to diversify within the equity market. Yes, exactly. Great, how has this factor changed over time, and how has your ETF been able to capture that? So what's interesting about dividend investing is when you look at the indigenesis, so dividend, I like to say, it was actually the very first form of factor investing, but people didn't call it that. They've been around much longer than factors, which really more recently came into people's lexicon. And so the way that people invested in dividends early on is they simply bought the stocks that had the highest dividend per share and just kind of allocated the weight, or market cap weighted, so on and so forth. But notice the nuance here is that I didn't say yield. They just invested off of dollar dividends, not dividend yield. And so as the market continued to evolve, people started then focusing on the highest yielding stocks, which makes sense if that's the investment objective. But then you kind of fast forward through time a little bit more. And where we are now is that, you know, there's a combination of yield with something else. And so the way that the first form that took was people invested or sought out stocks who had a high dividend yield, but increased it, you know, in sequence over some number of years. Some people do 20, some do 10, some do 15. But, you know, consistently over that time frame, that's really just a back door way of inserting quality into your dividend yield factor. And so when you realize that that's what that it makes sense to do, which it does, because it helps to avoid the dividend traps that I mentioned earlier, then there are more direct ways to go about that. It's like, okay, well, how do I identify explicitly a dividend yielding stock without having to wait 15 years for them to increase it for me to make that declaration. And so where you see that today, then, is we've got high dividend products that we run that actually intersect with quality as a standalone factor explicitly, or like FDVV, which we have here in the United States. That one screens out stocks based off of their payout ratio that I mentioned before, and dividend growth, which are another, they're more direct ways of getting at the quality of the dividend payer. Right. That's a perfect way to explain it. And we'll leave it there. So today, you got to download on the equity market backdrop from me, and then additional investing insights on dividend yield strategies. Thank you so much for joining me, Bobby. Thank you. That wraps up our episode today. Be sure to subscribe if you haven't already. In between episodes, you can always find me on LinkedIn, where I share charts of the week and commentary on all things market related. I'm Denise Chisholm. Thanks for joining us. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Investing involves risk, including risk of loss. Unless otherwise expressly disclosed to you in writing, the information provided in this material is for educational purposes only. Any viewpoints expressed by Fidelity are not intended to be used as a primary basis for your investment decisions, and are based on facts and circumstances at the point in time they are made, and not particular to you. Accordingly, nothing in this material constitutes impartial investment advice, or advice in a fiduciary capacity, as defined under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, both as amended. Fidelity and its representatives may have a conflict of interest in the products or services mentioned in this material, because they have a financial interest in the products or services, and may receive compensation directly or indirectly in connection with the management, distribution, and or servicing of these products or services, including fidelity funds, certain third-party funds and products, and certain investment services. Before making any investment decisions, you should take into account all of the particular facts and circumstances of your or your client's individual situation, and reach out to an investment professional if applicable. Information presented herein is for discussion and illustrative purposes only, and is not a recommendation or an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any securities. The views and opinions expressed by the fidelity speaker are his or her own as of the date of the recording, and do not necessarily represent the views of fidelity investments or its affiliates. Any such views are subject to change at any time based on market or other conditions, and fidelity disclaims any responsibility to update such views. These views should not be relied on as investment advice, and because investment decisions are based on numerous factors, may not be relied on as an indication of trading intent on behalf of any fidelity product. Neither fidelity nor the fidelity speaker can be held responsible for any direct or incidental loss incurred by applying any of the information offered. Please consult your tax or financial advisor for additional information concerning your specific situation. This podcast is intended for US persons only, and is not a solicitation for any fidelity product or service. This podcast is provided for your personal non-commercial use, and is the copyrighted work of FMR LLC. You may not reproduce this podcast in whole or in part, in any form, without the permission of FMR LLC. Fidelity High Dividend Index, FDVV, was created by FMR Co Inc. using a rules-based proprietary index methodology, and the performance of the fund and index may vary somewhat due to various factors, including fees and expenses. The American Association of Individual Investors, AAII, Sentiment Survey is a tool that helps investors measure the overall sentiment of individual investors in the stock market. A Z-score is a statistical measurement that describes a value's relationship to the mean of a group of values. Z-score is measured in terms of standard deviations from the mean. In investing and trading, Z-scores are measures of an instrument's variability and can be used by traders to help determine volatility. Investment decisions should be based on an individual's own goals, time horizon, and tolerance for risk. Nothing in this content should be considered to be legal or tax advice. And you are encouraged to consult your own lawyer, accountant, or other advisor before making any financial decision. Diversification does not ensure a profit or guarantee against loss. The third party trademarks and service marks appearing herein are the property of their respective owners. Stock markets are volatile and can decline significantly in response to adverse issuer, political, regulatory, market, economic, or other developments. Foreign markets can be more volatile than US markets due to increased risk of adverse issuer, political, market, or economic developments, all of which are magnified in emerging markets. In general, the bond market is volatile, and fixed income securities carry interest rate risk. As interest rates rise, bond prices usually fall, and vice versa. This effect is usually more pronounced for longer-term securities. Fixed income securities also carry inflation risk, liquidity risk, call risk, and credit and default risks for both issuers and counterparties. Lower quality fixed income securities involve greater risk of default or price changes due to the potential change in the credit quality of the issuer. Any fixed income securities sold or redeemed prior to maturity may be subject to loss. Because of their narrow focus, sector investments tend to be more volatile than investments that diversify across many sectors and companies. Stock markets, especially foreign markets, are volatile and can decline significantly in response to adverse issuer, political, regulatory, market, or economic developments. Foreign securities are subject to interest rate, currency exchange rate, economic, and political risks. The securities of smaller, less well-known companies can be more volatile than those of larger companies. There is no guarantee that a factor-based investing strategy will enhance performance or reduce risk. Before investing, make sure you understand how the funds' factor investment strategy may differ from more traditional index funds. Depending on market conditions, fund performance may underperform compared to funds that seek to track a market capitalization weighted index. The return of an index ETF is usually different from that of the index it tracks because of fees, expenses, and tracking error. An ETF may trade at a premium or a discount to its net asset value, NAV. There is no guarantee that a factor-based investing strategy will enhance performance or reduce risk. Before investing, make sure you understand how the funds factor investment strategy may differ from more traditional index funds. Depending on market conditions, fund performance may underperform compared to funds that seek to track a market capitalization weighted index. The return of an index ETF is usually different from that of the index it tracks because of fees, expenses, and tracking error. An ETF may trade at a premium or discount to its net asset value, NAV. Fidelity Investments provides investment products through Fidelity Distributors Company, LLC, clearing custody or other brokerage services through National Financial Services, LLC, or Fidelity Brokerage Services, LLC, member NYSE, SIPC, and institutional advisory services through Fidelity Institutional Wealth Advisor, LLC. Personal and workplace investment products are provided by Fidelity Brokerage Services, LLC, member NYSE, SIPC. Institutional Asset Management is provided by Fiam, LLC, and Fidelity Institutional Asset Management Trust Company. Before investing, consider the funds' investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. Contact Fidelity for a prospectus or, if available, a summary prospectus containing this information. Read it carefully. Copyright 2025, FMR, LLC. All rights reserved.