At Jackson, we've created a digital retirement planning experience with you in mind. Visit jackson.com to explore our easy to understand resources and user-friendly tools that are designed to enable financial professionals and clients to plan a path to financial freedom. Jackson is short for Jackson Financial Incorporated, Jackson National Life Insurance Company, Lansing, Michigan, and Jackson National Life Insurance Company of New York. Purchase New York. Please stay tuned for important disclosure information at the conclusion of this episode. Welcome to Investing Insights. I'm your host, Ivanna Hampton. Stubborn inflation or the Federal Reserve's next interest rate move can weigh on investors' minds. Yet, you shouldn't let worry keep you from staying invested since the market can always find something to worry about. Instead, it could be an opportunity to shore up your portfolio with downside protection, because there's no telling when the next sell-off might be. Russ Kinnell is the Senior Principal of Ratings for Morningstar Research Services. I spoke with the fund investor newsletter editor about which funds make good diversifiers. Thanks for being here, Russ. Glad to be here. Well, let's start with what is the downside capture ratio and tell us what does it do. Yeah, it's kind of a wonky phrase, but what it means is how much of market downside a fund has captured. So if the S&P loses 20% and a fund loses 20% at the same time, then it's got 100% downside capture because it captured 100% of the market's downside. If it lost more than that, it would be more than 100%. If it lost less than that, it would be less than that. And if it actually gained at a time when the market was correcting going down, then it would actually have a negative downside capture. You don't see that very often, but it does happen. And that seems counterintuitive with the positive and negative numbers. Exactly. It's a little confusing, but anyway, 100% means 100% of the market's loss. All right. So talk about what investors should also know if they see a fund with a low downside capture ratio. Right. So low downside capture ratio tells you this might be a good diversifier, that it's a fund that has in the past actually lost a lot less than when the market goes down. Now, it's not quite the same as low risk because the fact that it did well in a correction doesn't mean it always does well and it always has low risk. Many of them are low risk, but not all. Now, in the Fund Investor Newsletter, you researched funds' maximum drawdown. That's looking at their biggest peak to trough loss. How does that line up with downside capture? Right. I did that as sort of a reality check to illustrate that most of the time those two things are related, but not always. So, max drawdown is how much did a fund lose peak to trough regardless of the time. So, it's not telling you about how it's synced up with the market, but just what has its downside been historically. And so, most of the funds I highlighted with low downside capture also have low drawdowns, but not all of them. So, it's kind of one is low risk in sync with the market and one is just low risk. Well, let's go through some scenarios. My favorite part, how about a fund for someone saving up for an emergency or a down payment? Right. So, these are ones you really want low risk. And so, something like a CD, a money market, or a short-term bond fund. A short-term bond fund could lose a little, but it's not going to lose much. So, you really want to be low risk. If it's something, let's say you're buying a car or a house in a couple years, your kid's about to go to college, you're going to spend that money pretty soon. Don't mess around. Go low risk. Okay. Well, what if someone has a bond-heavy portfolio and they want to get some protection against interest rate risk? What are a couple options? Yeah. So, what you want then is a bank loan fund because bank loans actually adjust with the direction of interest rates. So, Fidelity floating rate and T-RO floating rate are two excellent floating rate funds that again, they adjust up. They're not always... There are times when they'll lose money because they do have some credit risk, but they are among the best options if you're worried about interest rate risk. Now, a pair of alternative funds offer diversification, but they take different approaches. Talk about the similarities and differences of the Vertis Alpha Simplex Fund and the Merger Fund. That's right. So, two totally different funds, though they both have some nice diversification values. So, Vertis Simplex is a fund that is very complicated, and it uses models to do a lot of trend-chasing in hundreds of markets. It can go short, it can have commodities, it can have longs. And so, it's a fund that actually had double-digit positive returns in 2020 and 2022, but on the other hand, it had a double-digit loss in 2023. So, it's an opportunistic alternatives fund, and that means that it can be a nice diversifier, but it's not low-risk. And then merger fund is lower-risk, because what it's doing is arbitrage. So, let's say company A announces it wants to buy company B, so they invest in company B, and they short company A, meaning if the deal goes through, they make a modest profit, and if the deal doesn't, then they lose some money. But in any case, that arbitrage opportunity is totally unrelated to the market, and so it's kind of a steady, but fairly low return vehicle. So, two very different vehicles. And can you give a quick explanation of what arbitrage is? Yeah, so your arbitrage means you're trying to capture one difference by going long one thing and short another thing. So, in other words, if a deal goes through, that's going to be good for the target, but it's going to be bad for the buyer because the buyer is now spending all that money that people might have wanted to do something else with. So, in this case, you're shorting the buyer and you're long the acquisition target because, let's say a deal is announced at $20 a share, that company doesn't necessarily go immediately to $20. It might be at $18 or $19 because the chance it doesn't go through. Occasionally, it will actually go over $20 because maybe people think there's a bidding war that's going to happen. But anyway, generally, it's below that, and that's where the merger fund steps in and says, we think this deal will close, so we're going to buy it, but we're going to short the other company so that we're hedging our risk. Thank you for that. Well, let's shift to some equity funds that could balance out aggressive holdings. You identified a couple of large men blend funds, good for retirees or anyone looking to preserve capital. What are those funds and how did they pull it off? Yeah, so now we're moving into areas where these are long equity funds, so they actually do have a lot of the markets upside and downside. So it's not as much of a diversifier as the other ones we talked about, but still useful in dialing down your overall portfolio risk. So one fund I like is Vanguard Global Minimum Volatility, which as the name says, has invest in lower volatility stocks. It also hedges most of the currency risk, which is a big source of volatility in global funds. Another one I like is Vanguard Dividend Growth, which because it's looking for dividend growers, that leads it to high quality names. High quality names are kind of defensive, so if there's a recession, these names tend to hold up really well. On the other hand, in a big rally like we had in 2024, they tend to lag somewhat. But again, very nice defensive characteristics with a portfolio like that. And a trio of large value funds play defense well. One of them has earned a Morningstar Medalist Rating of Goal. What makes these three funds stand out? Yeah, so they're all kind of defensive in nature, and they're looking for cheap stocks, but also kind of think about absolute returns. So First Eagle Overseas is a fund we've liked for a long time that's defensive. They'll buy a little gold. Invesco Dividend Income is another one. Unlike the Dividend Growth Fund I mentioned, this is a little more income-oriented, and that makes it more of a value fund. But again, it's done a nice job of managing the downside. The third value fund is Tweety Brown International Value, which is a very diversified, but very disciplined value investor. So again, that value discipline helps to reduce the risk a little bit. Gotcha. So any noteworthy mentions outside of large blend and large value that could serve as a good diversifier, in your opinion? Yeah, small value is a nice place, especially we've had such a large growth dominated market that I like small value as a good diversifier. And returns have been unexciting lately, but still I think they're good diversifiers. One of my longtime favorites is Royce Small Cap Special run by Charlie Dreyfuss and friends. They're real accounting mavens who really dig into the accounting to look for any issues and look for clean balance sheets, good accounting. It tends to be a very nice defensive fund. And do you own that one? I do own that fund. Thank you for asking. Oh, for sure. So if investors are interested in minimal or no risk, how can they get zero downside? Yeah, well, that's a trick. And one issue there is you might not keep up with inflation, but if you want zero risk, we're talking about CDs, money market funds, ultra short-term bond funds have a tiny amount of risk, but almost zero. So those are all very low risk areas. And of course, the relationship to that also means very low return. So you have to accept low returns, but you're getting low risk. Well, Russ, thank you for coming to the table and talking about some good diversifiers for our portfolio. You're welcome. That wraps up this week's episode. Here are a couple of reminders. Sign up for the Fund Investor Newsletter at newsletters.morningstar.com or click the link in the show notes. The Investing Insights team asked that you give our podcast five stars to help others find the work we're producing for you. Thanks for listening and making this show part of your day. I want to recognize Senior Video Producer, Jake Van Kersen, Associate Multimedia Editor, Jessica Bebel and Digital Communication Specialist, Kumodini Nwavala, for helping to put this show together. I'm Ivanna Hampton, Lead Multimedia Editor and Morningstar. Take care, everybody. This recording is for informational purposes only and should not be considered investment advice. Opinions expressed are as of the date of recording and are subject to change without notice. The views and opinions of guests on this program are not necessarily those of Morningstar Inc. and its affiliates, which together we refer to as Morningstar. Morningstar is not affiliated with guests or their business affiliates unless otherwise stated. Morningstar does not guarantee the accuracy or the completeness of the data presented herein. This recording is for informational purposes only, and the information, data, analysis, or opinion it includes or their use should not be considered investment or tax advice, and therefore is not an offer to buy or sell a security. Morningstar shall not be responsible for any trading decisions, damages, or other losses resulting from or related to the information, data, analyses, or opinions or their use. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. All investments are subject to investment risk, including possible loss of principle. Individuals should seriously consider if an investment is suitable for them by referencing their own financial position, investment objectives, and risk profile before making any investment decision. Please consult a tax and or a financial professional for advice specific to your individual circumstances. Advisors and financial experts, this one's for you. Registration is now open for the Morningstar Investment Conference. On June 25th and 26th, join thousands of your peers in Chicago for two days packed with cutting edge research, expert insights, and thorough analysis. Advisors can even attend for free and earn CE credits. Learn more about the MIC conferences at morningstar.com/events/mic.