Ryan Reynolds here from Mint Mobile, the message for everyone paying big wireless way too much. Please for the love of everything good in this world, stop. With Mint, you can get premium wireless for just $15 a month. Of course, if you enjoy overpaying, no judgments, but that's weird. Okay, one judgment. Anyway, give it a try at mintmobile.com/switch. Upfront payment of $45 for three-month plan equivalent to $15 per month required. Intro rate first three months only, then full price plan options available, taxes and fees extra. See full terms at mintmobile.com. At Capella University, you can learn at your own pace with our FlexPath learning format. Take one or two courses at a time and complete as many as you can in a 12-week billing session. With FlexPath, you can even finish the bachelor's degree you started in 22 months for $20,000. A different future is closer than you think. With Capella University, learn more at capella.edu. Fastest 25% of students. Cost varies by pace, transfer credits, and other factors. Fees apply. President Trump always asks for an escalator to the moon, and he always asks someone else to pay for it. In the end, after seven steps of maximum pressure, he usually ends up with a ladder to the roof of his house. If you have a recession with yields not cooperating, boy, we're in like, we're not in America anymore. We're in Brazil. We're in Turkey. Look out. Hello and welcome to Wealthion. I'm Maggie Lake. And joining me to discuss geopolitics and the market impact is Marko Papic, Senior Vice President and Chief Strategist at BCA Research. Hi, Marko. It's wonderful to have you on. Maggie, it's always such a pleasure. Thank you for having me. And gosh, we have a lot to talk about. The headlines out of Washington are changing hour to hour. And we are seeing markets whipsawed by all the news. And the latest as we are speaking is a continued escalation, the threat of an additional 50% tariff on China, maybe retaliatory coming from other countries. I mean, that 50% is on top of all the other levies already announced on China. What's your reaction to where we sit right now? So I would say it's very, very difficult in a moment like this to step back and, you know, not think linearly. It is just very difficult. And what I would say is that with President Trump and his negotiating style, there have been many moments in his administration across the two different terms where this was a moment when most people would think linearly. For example, think about the meeting with Zelensky. I can't tell you how many clients reached out and said, like, is this it? Is this the end of Western Alliance and the security arrangement? And it ended up not being that. It certainly, if you took President Trump and Vice President Vance going after Zelensky in the Oval Office, if you extrapolated that linearly, you ended up with some U.S.-Russian alliance, and many, many did that. But the truth is that several days and weeks later, it became clear that Ukraine has to make a deal with the US and that rare earth mineral deal, which I personally think is completely and utterly vacuous and empty and complete nonsense. But eventually, that will be the anchor for continued American alliance with both Ukraine and Europe, even though the US really doesn't need rare earths out of Ukraine. So what I'm seeing is that, given that caveat, let's start to think about some realities. First, President Trump always asks for an escalator to the moon, and he always asks someone else to pay for it. In the end, after seven steps of maximum pressure, he usually ends up with a ladder to the roof of his house. Now his critics then start shaking their fist and say, well, he didn't get anything. No, I mean, you can get to the top of his house. It's marginally positive for the US. Most of the deals that he has gotten are, I think, objectively, not most, all of them are objectively marginally positive for the US., but the whole process, in other words, is quite hyperbolic and quite volatile. And I think the market is now extrapolating this opening bid in the negotiations, which is egregious tariffs, double the smooth Haley level of 1930s, and is extrapolating that into the future, which we end with a Great Depression. That's the first issue. The second issue I would say is that I think you shouldn't have nerds like me on your shelf. I think I'm the wrong person to analyze President Trump. Even with my framework of seven steps of maximum pressure, I think you should have more people with higher EQ. You should have cool people on, salespeople. The reason I say that is, I'll give you this anecdote. I had this very interesting conversation with the person who runs my business development, and when President Trump announced Liberation Day, I told her like, wow, these tariffs are high. I think that people are going to walk away. Her answer to me was, this is how I sell your research. Then I said, no, you don't understand. I'm sorry, I forgot to mention his math makes no sense. He's using some completely ludicrous algorithm to derive the tariffs, to which he said, that is precisely how I sell your research. So anyways, I went to sleep that night thinking, well, you know, everyone's going to walk away from this price. President Trump just set prices too high. And what happened? You know, to your point, when you introduced this topic, you said there's retaliation. It's only really China. It appears that 50 other countries approached the White House and said they're willing to negotiate. In other words, thank God for my head of business development. Clearly, I would be setting a much lower price for my own product if it was left to me because I don't have the, it's a family show, I don't have the minerals to set the price too high. It does appear like President Trump does. I was going to say moxie, Marko, but I know where you were going with that. So wait, this is really interesting. Okay, so you very much see this as negotiations, hyperbolic, contentious, outrageous, however you call them, but part of the art of the deal, Trump's art of the deal, whether you buy into it or not, part of that, as opposed to something that is much more permanent in the category of a trade war of something national security based. Well, or it doesn't have to be national security, like the alternative is a permanent state of affair. Well, for whatever reason, national security, like redrawing American trade relationships, drawing up the drawbridge against the rest of the world, neo-McKinleyism, let's go back to financing the entire government through trade, even though in 1901, the US government was small enough to be financed through a bake sale. All those things could be on the other side of the ledger. So, yes, I do think this is meaningfully in the rubric of negotiations, I think, with President Trump. And there's two reasons for why I would say this is the case. First of all, I just, anyone who tries to tell me what President Trump wants, I just stop listening to them. Not because I have an answer, but because I don't think there is an answer. I think President Trump is one of the unique policymakers in the world in that he feels his way through material constraints with his gut. He literally feels his way through material constraints and he doesn't have stable preferences. So please do not tell me how he has at some point said that he wants to finance tax cuts through tariffs. Please don't tell me how he has said that the rest of the world has quote-unquote raped America, because that literally his words not mine. Because I can also counter and say he has also said he wants a BYD factory in Ohio. He has also said that he wants fair trade. He wants American companies to do great business abroad. So he has at any one time said almost anything about anything. Like Iran, my favorite thing. We don't want war. We'll have a deal. Or maybe not. They'll bomb them. It's like in the same sentence. So what I'm getting at here is that I don't think he has stable preferences. And I think as constraints to the current policy set increase, he's going to start looking for off ramps. The problem with my view is that you can't trade it. It's very dangerous to trade it. Anyone listening to this thinking they're going to day trade Marko's view, good luck with that. Because President Trump's constraints are not going to impact him on a day to day basis. I think he does have room to pursue a very tough negotiation. And so I have a very high conviction view that this is a negotiation, an extremely high conviction view. If it didn't start as a negotiation, it's going to end because the US cannot fight a trade war with everybody else, no matter what proponents of this strategy think. So let's leave that aside for now. The problem is that President Trump can remain aloof of his constraints longer than you can stay liquid. And so I would not necessarily be trying to catch the bottom and the pivot towards negotiations. But don't be surprised when it happens. And I think the market will sniff out when it happens. Some of the, by the way, signposts of that could be, let's say, you know, Vietnam and Taiwan, and I think Europe on some things, not all, have already started to offer concessions. And if at some point President Trump, like pats a country on the back and says, I like the cut of your jib, like, you know, how he said the way China did this is wrong. And then he says the way that like, let's say Vietnam did it is right. That will be an opening insight that this is a negotiation. So that's what I would be looking for in terms of signposts. That's so interesting. So when we are along that line, we are hearing a lot of talk and I'm going to circle back on as something you said, but we're hearing a lot of talk from the administration about who holds the cards, right? Of course, they're saying they hold all the cards and the Treasury Secretary of the Senate is saying China as a country, and I'm quoting, is playing with a losing hand. Do you agree with that? Does it look like you just mentioned that in a negotiation, someone's got to have the upper hand. Do you think that the US is negotiating from a place of strength, that everyone else, even if they obviously detest the nature of this, will be willing to come to the table and play, or is the US overstating the strength of its hand? I think it's a loaded question, because I think the answer is obvious. Of course, the US has the strongest hand. That's an empirically just an already solved problem. We know the US doesn't depend on exports to the rest of the world for its economic growth the way that the rest of the world depends on the US for the destination. However, who won the Vietnam War? Who runs Iraq today? Who runs Afghanistan? Who runs Syria? Did Russia conquer all of Ukraine? The answer to all those questions is absolutely not. The country that held all the hands and then had the upper hand lost. Syria is run effectively by Al-Qaeda, Afghanistan is overrun by the Taliban, Iraq is essentially a province of Iran today and Vietnam is a free and sovereign country unified under the Communist Party. So what am I trying to get at here? In a game theoretical sense, it's not the material power that matters, it's willingness to incur pain. President Trump is making a bet that the population, including his voters, are willing to incur pain so that they can assemble bicycles in the United States of America and apparently pick their own strawberries. Now I'm being facetious here, of course, but let's just be very clear, the tariffs he imposed are not targeted to bringing back high-tech manufacturing or high-tech manufacturing jobs. Like the United States of America did not impose tariffs of 100% on like cars. It imposed tariffs on Lesotho, I guess so that we can all start sowing Levi jeans. In other words, there's no way in hell that Americans are willing to incur pain for those jobs. That's just, I mean, prove me wrong, you know, and I can prove me right. I have seven different polls, seven different polls from before and after the election that show very clearly that Americans assign a very low, very low focus on trade and tariffs in 2024 election. In 2016, I think trade globalization was much more important, which is why I think that Trump outmaneuvered Hillary Clinton on this issue. But in 2024, I don't think that President Trump won because of a promise to wage a huge trade war, so we can pick up our own avocados. That was not what people voted for. It was actually the least relevant issue. In all the polls I have, trade and tariffs are very low. So what that tells me is that, yeah, I think on some level, the median American is cool with tariffs. I think they're open to bringing back some manufacturing jobs. Why not? Makes sense. Pandemic proved that there's national security concerns and it makes sense to do that. But to go picking for avocados and strawberries and building bicycles and sewing jeans, that's not what anyone is looking for in terms of the pain. So I think pain tolerance of other countries actually is higher, even though they don't hold the cards. Also, another thing that the White House hasn't really thought out is that they have launched a trade war against the world. But the world is not out there eating each other. Like, it's not the 1930s where we had the begger die neighbor policies. In other words, the rest of the world is not fighting a trade war with themselves, with each other. And in fact, many countries outside of the US have fiscal space to stimulate and offset what the US just imposed on them. And so the second order of fact is actually going to be more growth in the rest of the world, not less, because everyone now has an excuse to be a little bit naughty with their fiscal policy. Europeans, the Chinese, they can all say, well, we got invaded by America, you know, they're mean, bad mean Trump. And so the actual implications for growth are not that clear. And by the way, President Trump has identified that President Biden's fiscal policies were unsustainable, right? I mean, this is one of the counters that President Trump has said, look, Joe Biden expanded deficits. I mean, he himself did as well during the pandemic and before, but the conservative argument is that Joe Biden used the government as a piggyback. Well, if that's the case, then we're going to have to curb that in the US., right? So the US actually is at the end of its fiscal space. The rest of the world is not because they did not stimulate as much after the pandemic, certainly not Europe and China. And so, I think that there is a really simplistic linear extrapolation going on. And the truth is that the rest of the world both has more pain tolerance to the US and has the ability to offset the pain of tariffs. So I'll go back to the question, do we really have? I mean, you said it was a self-evident answer that we have the leverage because we don't need that. But do we? You just laid out two very compelling arguments why people may not be willing to come to the table and negotiate. Again, first-order linear extrapolation is often empirically supported and self-evident, but it is wrong. I think that the good news though, the good news is that this isn't binary. Just because the rest of the world has the pain tolerance and ability to stimulate, it's not like you're not going to talk to the United States of America. It is the largest market. That is still true. Why not entertain President Trump? Why not offer negotiations? I think it would be silly to start off with retaliation. I think China, as Secretary of Treasury said, has made a mistake. If I was running a country, I would definitely not retaliate to the US. I would start negotiating, but I would start sending strong signals on the side. For example, F35 deal. Maybe I'll review it as Canada has done. Oh, I'm going to spend 4% of my GDP on defense. It doesn't look like I'm going to buy any American defense companies. And also, my airline needs to update its fleet. Maybe I give Airbus the contract. So there's many, many ways in which countries are over the next couple of weeks going to start sending hints to the White House without retaliating with tariffs because that's simplistic. And clearly he has said, don't do this. Why set him off? Why not open negotiations, but still hurt the US.? And one of the things I would say is that the White House is playing a very dangerous game with the blue collar voter. You see, because what President Trump is doing is he's elevating the theoretical assembly line worker in Ohio or Michigan, but he's actually imperiling the job prospects of that actual assembly line worker in Washington state actually assembling actual wide body plates. And so the reaction here, the benefits, Ken Griffith has recently said, the benefits of this policy could be 20 years down the line. We got some cool jobs for someone who's like in their teens and can't vote today. But the reality is that someone who's 47 years old and having a really good union job in Washington assembling airplanes or, or defense platforms actually loses their job because the global markets evaporate for US products. And the danger to America is that other than some electronics, most of US exports are these kind of capex expensive goods, really sophisticated aerospace defense capex goods, that often tend to be procured in the rest of the world by either state-owned enterprises or SOE adjacent procurers. So it can be easily manipulated by the rest of the world during this negotiating process, just kind of flagging to the US. And again, if Canada has suspended its F-35 purchase, as we've seen over the last couple of weeks, that's Canada, you know. The rest of the world is going to be a lot meaner on that. So the retaliation is not just through tariffs. That's a simplistic way to look at it. There's other ways that the rest of the world will hurt the US immediately. The other one is agricultural products. A lot of conservative districts and states depend on foreign markets. Take the fruit growers in Eastern Washington, Eastern Oregon. These are not liberal districts. These are very conservative places. And they're going to start being impacted by that China trade war in particular. Yeah. And in fact, they are specifically, having learned in the past, specifically targeting red state growing. I mean, they're quite purposeful about it. What does, and we're going to get to the market reaction to all of this, but I think it's really important to understand what you're saying, because it's a little bit different than a lot of what we're hearing. What is the end goal for the Trump administration for tariffs? Again, I think that's a wrong play. He's situational and he's going with the gut and feeling his way around in the moment. He sold it as these jobs, as bringing manufacturing jobs back. But as you say, 20 years down the line, by the way, to a bunch of young people, we don't even know if they want those jobs. Having two teenagers, I will tell you, if you can go 10 exit with crypto or drive an Uber or DoorDash or something, it's not clear anybody wants those jobs. But that's how it was sold on the campaign trail. So what do they really want? Is it revenue generating? Do they want revenue? I think you should play your kids the deer hunter. You know, that opening scene that lasts like 30, 40 minutes when they're showing the Pennsylvania steel mill. Like, that's, hey, that looks interesting. You can day drink, shoot some deer and get scolded by Bolton Irons. So look, what I would say here is, again, very difficult for me to tell you where I think President Trump is headed with this. I think that it's all of the above. Does he want some revenue from tariffs? Sure. Why not? Why not collect some revenue? Is it 600 billion, which is what it currently would theoretically collect? I don't think so because it's too high and comes with huge risks. But, you know, like, why not pick up 100 billion, 200 billion, with, let's say, 5 to 10 percent across the board tariff? Does he want to bring manufacturing jobs to the US.? Of course, yes. And again, the Midwest voters have been loyal to him. In 2020, they switched to Biden because I think he offered a more compelling populist story at the time because of COVID and various stimulus checks and so on. But for the most part, I think President Trump is, I think, I think he's genuine. He does want to improve their life as well. Is it to create new export markets for the US by lowering tariffs in the rest of the world and actually produce fairer trade? And that's where the word reciprocal comes from. Yes, I think it's also that. But again, oh, and is it to attract FDI from foreign enterprises? Yes, it's all of that. The problem is that a lot of what I just said and uttered, the problem is that it requires carrots. If you're going to raise tariffs at 50%, 20% to 50% across the world, you're not going to get the FDI, like no way. You're not going to get lower tariffs in better markets for US products. How are you going to do that? Like, how will you incentivize the rest of the world to do this unless you also invade them and drop some tomahawks on them? And what comes out of the White House and what comes out of a lot of the people who work for President Trump is this sort of tortured analogy to the Cold War, where it's like, well, the rest of the world owes us for their sweet taste of their liberty, you know? And again, that was an argument that worked a lot better in the 60s, in the 70s, and maybe even in the 80s. But in 2025, look, let me tell you, as a geopolitical expert, if there's anything I know, it's that when I go to Indonesia or Malaysia or South Africa or Brazil, none of them think that they need the US really, quite frankly, for anything. Take Indonesia. Yeah, they have some disputes, maritime disputes with China. But let me give you a very specific example of how little Indonesia considers China a threat. Indonesia raised export tariffs on raw nickel. They actually waged a trade war with China, raised nickel export tariffs. What did China do? Did they raise tariffs in retaliation? Did they start doing military exercises in Indonesia's waters? What kind of a stick did they use? Well, they showed up with $20 billion in cash and build Indonesia's nickel refining processing industry. Let me say that again. Indonesia said, no more free, no more cheap ore for you. We want your refining industry. And China was like, okay. And Indonesia has already laid out what's next. Next is the tax on refined nickel. And then it's going to be a tax on batteries and then cars. So Indonesia has already laid out its 20, 30-year economic development story to China and told them, we will eventually take some of your EV production and we want you to build it for us. And China was like, okay, fine, you know. So you cannot show up in Jakarta if you're Deputy Treasury Secretary of the United States of America and say, listen, you're free and you don't speak Mandarin today because of our benevolence. They're going to laugh at you and they're going to say like, what? The biggest security threat we have is Filipino pirates. Yeah, we don't need anything that you're selling right now. This is just one example, one country. It can be repeated across the board. Now, there's a few countries, a handful of them, maybe on one hand, Israel. You've got South Korea. You've got Ukraine, maybe the Baltic States, maybe Poland, maybe Finland, maybe China's wayward province of Taiwan. Maybe we can say that there's some countries out there that will do literally anything to continue to curry favor with the US because they truly are still in a cold war sort of a relationship of being a client state. But other than those, there's just not very many. And that's why I think this policy cannot be about reshaping trade and bending it to America's will. The US is going to have to start using some carrots to get what it wants. So back to that issue, one of the narratives that has been going around, and I think that this is concerning a lot of people, is that this is not just a trade negotiation. This is a paradigm shift from away from globalization to a more multipolar world. This is something that was happening anyway. Trump's a symptom of it. He's not the engineer of it. And that this is that kind of fractured world, the end of that post-World War world order, and a much more fractured globe is risky. It's bad for investors. It's fraught with more conflict. And that this is where we are right now. It doesn't sound like you necessarily think that's the case. No, I think it's absolutely the case. I just think that people misunderstand what multipolarity means for investors. So I've been one of the first people in finance to really use multipolarity and try to explain this to people. Now, I'm not the only one, but I was sort of known as the multipolarity guy. I would walk into the office, people would laugh. Oh, here comes the multipolarity guy. Now, the problem is multipolarity became kind of a dirty word in America. Especially with establishment, because two people that love the word multipolarity more than me are President Putin and President Xi. They love using it and saying like the world is multipolar, you know, like as sort of a knock on America. So the world is multipolar, but that doesn't mean bipolar. Just be very, very clear. There's three types of worlds that we can have. Number one, unipolar. That's, you know, American hegemony of the 90s, 2000s, early 2000s. Then bipolar. That's the Cold War, where the world kind of splits into these two even camps. Many Americans confuse multipolarity with that bifurcated world of the Cold War. That's not what multipolarity is. Multipolarity, we haven't experienced, none of us, not even our grandparents. Multipolarity is what we had last from 1812 to 1914. You could argue maybe intro war was also multipolarity, but like, let's leave that aside because it's messy and very brief. That 100 years after Napoleonic Wars until the breakout of World War I was a multipolar world. And guess what happened? Enemies traded with one another. Why? Because it's difficult to form stable coalitions. Let me say that again. Allies, true allies, allies that will die for each other. In case of a world war, think France. France will go and fight with America against China. I have no doubts about that. That will happen. If there's a world war III, Europe will align with the US for a slew of reasons. But short of world war III, oh yeah, France is going to steal Boeing's market share in China. Oh yeah, they're not going to need any motivation to do that. And that's what a multipolar world looks like. So in the 19th century, what happened was that allies, military allies like United Kingdom, France and Russia, which were in a military alliance like NATO against Germany, they actually all tried to compete with each other who was going to get more market share in Germany. Because coordination between allies becomes very difficult. And so I would argue that President Trump is honestly the first president in US history that recognizes the world is multipolar. When it comes to geopolitics, he's actually very adept at doing it. And so I think that what's happening in Ukraine, in the Middle East, even with China, some of his statements seem to recognize that other countries will have spheres of influence. It's actually the Democratic Party that doesn't seem to be aware of multipolarity. Remember Hillary Clinton's famous line that United States of America doesn't recognize spheres of influence, which is a ludicrous statement. That would be like me saying, I don't recognize that I'm a 43 year old man who can't dunk anymore. So I'm going to go and try to like dunk now and tear my ACL every six months. So the point is, President Trump in some way does recognize this, but when it comes to this trade war, if he truly wants to just eject America from the system, he will then cause the US to suffer greatly in terms of economic progress and innovation. I don't think that's his end goal. I think his end goal is negotiating, getting better deals for the US., getting FDI into the US., and eventually, yes, even trading with the enemy. This is where I go back to the statement, sorry to interrupt, just the statements he's made before about China are actually quite weird and not very national security focused. He has, for example, with TikTok, with saying that BYD should open a factory in Ohio. If you don't believe me, go watch YouTube clips of his campaign rallies in Ohio. You know, President Trump understands, I think, on some level that in this multipolar world, when it comes to trade, you actually have to be pretty promiscuous. You cannot be too rigid with whom you trade because your own allies are going to cheat. And in a way, the allies are not cheating because they want to cheat America. The allies are cheating because they need revenue. Revenue, material wealth, is the basis of geopolitical power. If France doesn't sell airbuses to China, which by the way is like 1980s technology, you know, why wouldn't you sell that to China? If Airbus doesn't do that, they can't get the revenue, they can't do air R&D, and then they cannot competently contribute to a Western alliance in terms of technological innovation against China. So this is a no-brainer for most countries and ultimately will be for the Trump administration as well. In that situation, if you're correct, if that is the reality we're in and Trump recognizes it, is there a massive reset, reprice for US assets that needs to happen under that universe? Because we have a huge concentration of international money sitting in US stocks and bonds. Does that look different in a multipolar world? I mean, we obviously have given up a lot of gains and we've seen some flows repatriate back home, the beginning of that. Is that a wildly different looking environment and a negative for US assets? Maggie, you introduced me as a geopolitical strategist. I'm really a macro investor. And one of my pet peeves is when we overemphasize geopolitics. In other words, I would say that for the past, I don't know, 15 years, we have been in a multipolar world and it's been an incredibly lucrative 15 years for America. I think that it's very dangerous to say because of multipolarity, you should have a multipolar portfolio. But I am comfortable saying it now, in 2025, for two reasons. In 2025, the valuation gap between America and the rest of the world is egregious. And it's to a point where it doesn't really make sense. So that's the first. Value matters. In other words, if America and Europe were the same price, the same value, would I be long Europe as I am right now in my recommendations? The answer would be no, I would not be. I think I would still want to own America over Europe if both were the same price, but they're not the same price. US has been on an absolute terror for 15 years. So that's the first issue. The second issue I would say is that I can explain American exceptionalism and I can explain why America ate everyone's lunch from 2010 to 2020. From 2020 onwards, I really can't. It's mostly a mag seven story. I don't think mag seven are going to have a monopoly or a moat over AI productization. I think they're railroads. I think they've built the infrastructure for AI that all of us are going to benefit from, but they're actually wasting capex on that infrastructure. I think deep seek matters, actually. I actually don't laugh at Secretary of Treasury Scott Besson when he says the sell off is about deep seek. Honestly, it is about Trump, but it's also about deep seek. And then the final point I would say is that the way I explain 2020 onwards is just fiscal policy. US. Let me just say this very clearly. The US responded to a pandemic in a way that nobody else did. Nobody else did. The US spent 40% of its GDP on fiscal stimulus. It spent more fighting the pandemic than it did the Nazis and Japan. And it spent 4x what Europe spent. So if you want to find a reason why US multiples expanded, US revenues went up and US earnings outperformed, like boom, there it is. That's it. That's the reason. And I think that the fiscal gravy train is ending. Whether it's Trump or Harris in power, it was going to end either way. So I can build a case for why US you probably should take all your nice shiny US dollars and go shopping around the world. It's not predicated necessarily on Trump's tariff policies. It's not predicated on global multipolarity. It's predicated on this value issue and the fiscal deluge of the last five years, which is coming to an end for America. Now, I do think President Trump is also accelerating it. And so maybe what would have taken four years of soft underperformance by US relative to the rest of the world is now happening kind of in a 12 to 24 months. Yeah, in a week. Well, look, my target for US dollar was to decline 30% no matter who comes to power. But with President Trump, I said it's probably a two year thing. I'm constantly, as you said earlier, it's a week in, week out. You know, I mean, we could see the dollar go down 30% against the euro by the end of this year. It's already down like 6%. Is this part, do you think this is part of the plan, this kind of shock and awe, like throw it all out now? Because, of course, we run on a midterm political system here. And, you know, there's not much that can happen, except people railing at him and investors shaking their fists. But in terms of voting anyone out of office, they've got a two-year runway. Could they frontload all that pain and revaluation, reset in a different way, in the way you're talking about, in order to kind of clear the decks? And can you do that without breaking something? It seems like an awfully big gamble. Yeah, I mean, well, you might be okay to break something. Like, effectively, many members of the administration have either privately, to me, or actually publicly, but also kind of, you know, quietly said, we're okay with a recession. In fact, one of the members of the administration stole me last summer before they were even in power. Like, it's about time that the Republican Party gets a recession early in their term. It's always the Democrats who benefit from this kind of early-in-the-term recession. Actually, that's not necessarily true. George W. Bush, the junior, did have a recession early in his first term. What I would say, though, it's that's a very risky strategy, but I do think they're comfortable with it. I think they are comfortable with pain up front, as you say. I think it's going to cost them, and I think it's going to cost them more than just the midterms. I think it's going to cost them a lot. So the Treasury market hasn't, you know, the yields have been going up. You know, nothing crazy right now, but there's a lot of talk and concern. I think that, you know, we're talking about a trade war, we're talking about all the tools people can use to retaliate, not just reciprocal tariffs, but also kind of weaponizing their ownership of US assets and rumors that pop up from time to time, like could the Chinese start selling? What about if the Japanese start selling? Do you worry about either the Fed or the US government losing control of the US. Treasury market? I think that yes, that was actually my concern when I identified President Trump as the likely candidate to win, which was really the end of 2023. And I never really wavered that view, even when Harris had that big pick up when she was nominated by the Democratic Party. I always sort of felt that President Trump is likely going to win the election. And so my main thesis for investors was that he is a human steepener. And then notice that what happened in September, October, and November, the Fed cut rates by 100 base points, but we went up in yields 100 base points. That actually has not happened since the 80s. That was a profound sell off, profound. And I think that it really worried the administration. I think they picked Secretary Besant over Lutnick as Treasury Secretary in part to kind of calm down the bond market. But then what happened was there was a revolt in the House of Representatives, which has effectively acted as a break on President Trump's fiscal promises. He promised during his campaign to expand the deficit by 10, 15 trillion. I mean, he didn't explicitly say that, but if you actually do the math and put all of his promises together, they would expand the deficit by 10 to 15 trillion over the next 10 years. So one trillion to one and a half trillion per year of extra deficit. And the House of Representatives has just said, no, we're actually now looking at this reconciliation process. It looks like it's going to expand the deficit by like a trillion to maybe two trillion over the 10 years. That's a lot less than what was originally proposed by the Trump campaign. So what am I getting at? What I'm getting at, Maggie, is we already had a bond market, right? It was understated and really only recognized by members of the financial community and bond traders, but it was pretty profound. And I do think that what's bigger risk than the trade war is if President Trump cajoles the House and the Senate to go back to the profligate fiscal policy. So I don't actually think it's selling by foreigners. I don't think that's actually the risk. I think actually the risk is the following sequence. President Trump's tariff induces a recession, and he thinks that in a recession the US gets to stimulate, which it does. At that point, it's not countercyclical or populist. It's kind of an establishment thing to do. But the US is at the end of its fiscal space. It just is. It's mad. And so in a recession, President Trump says, cool story, I get to cut taxes now. And the bond market says, no, you don't. Because it's not a normal world. And your predecessor Biden and you yourself, with the help of Nancy Pelosi, all three of you got together and blew out the deficit massively. And so, no. And so that would be extremely pernicious, Maggie. And I'm, I have 100% confidence that Secretaries of Treasury, Besant and Lutnick and everyone in that White House does not agree with me. I think that they probably mistakenly do think that they can get a recession and then get tax cuts through. Bond market will let them. I don't think it will. I mean, again, we're at 4.2, going on 4.3% of the 10-year yield. We were much lower with Silicon Valley Bank crisis. We were much lower with the SOM rule crisis in August. It's not happening. And I think that that's a huge warning signal that we could be at 5% in the middle of a recession and then assets have to reprice. And I mean, like, risk assets, like equities. Then we have a serious downfall in the S&P 500, much more than really at any time other than 2008. That is a real concern. So just for timing, it's not this budget process. Or if the budget gets pushed out to August, do you think the numbers are bad enough that it tries to happen then? Could that be the timing? Yes, yes, or supplemental. They could pass a reconciliation bill that's pretty conservative, where the House of Representatives is in the driving seat. Right now, the Senate and the House are fighting. The Senate is much more aligned with Trump. Interestingly, by the way, many analysts think that this is evidence that eventually Trump wins because they mistakenly remember McCain voting against Obamacare repeal. But that's because I would say the marginal Republican legislator was in the Senate at the time. I think it's in the House at this time. Just the way the numbers work out that way. So yes, the Senate is pushing for more of a Trumpian budget, asymptotically approaching some of his promises. But the House is far more conservative in this particular case. And you know, like the Tea Party, like concerned about deficits. Yeah, except, you know, the Tea Party was really about austerity. This is more like, hey, listen, we're cool expanding the deficit, just not blowing it out. If the House wins out this time, everything is fine. But then if you get bad data, as you point out, and then you have another supplemental legislation later, I think at that point, yes, you could have actually the bottom market riot in the middle of the recession. I actually do think that that's possible. And what's a riot look like? Above 5%, 6%? What's a riot look like? Honestly, these levels in a recession is a market riot. Because, look, the whole reason why the US is not in a bind is that there's no leverage. There is no, like, there's no real leverage. Like, that's what people always say. And I agree, I'm the first to say it. Americans have $10 trillion of found money in their home equity. $10 trillion. It's so easy. I see where the logic is. Let's get the yields down. Why? Boom, Americans have room to leverage themselves, to buy durable goods, to buy cars, to buy homes. You have 40-year-olds who have never owned a home, right? So, and they're not without money. They are not without money. They're just not, what's the word? Stupid. What I mean is that no one's going to go out and get themselves a 30-year mortgage at these rates. Everyone's waiting for a recession. Everybody, so the yields can come down. Except, you know, the people in the lowest quartile, obviously, to them, that would be a tragedy no matter what. But 75% of Americans are cool with a recession. The problem with that is that the bond market is also not stupid. Why would the bond yield go down to 2% if literally weeks later it's going to be back at 4? Maybe the bond market just won't go to 4. And if you're messing with long-term inflation expectations, if you're messing with trade, if you're messing with this, that or the other, the chances that the yields go down at any point to incentivize this kind of re-leveraging, false. So yes, in a set there is spare of us, all things being equal, and in all things being equal recession, where we just kind of waltz into it. You know, if Harris became the president and off, the labor market kind of slows down, boom. Yeah, I do think the yields probably would have come down. But if you're inducing it by strapping dynamites to your chest and pressing the button, if you have Stephen Miran out there saying that effectively, we're going to impose a transaction tax on our foreign holders of treasuries, like you're probably not going to get the benefit of lower yields that you sort of were planning for in a recession. So that's the biggest risk right now. The biggest risk to risk assets is that these guys are going to mess around and find out. This is a family show. Of course, kids say it differently. And they are in the process of doing that. I think they're trying. It's funny to me that the Republican Party and a bunch of conservatives effectively are making the mistake that you would expect from communists. This idea that you kind of fine-tune the levers of government and then you get everything perfectly, just the world doesn't work like that. There's too many second and third order effects. It's a complex system, complexity. It's not linear. And this idea that we induce a short, brief recession, yields fall, everybody's happy. And then, you know, like, eh. But people say, listen, Basenta is a macro hedge fund guy. Like, surely he knows this. Yes. But I'll put it this way. If Scott Besson was 100% in charge, yes, maybe, maybe then this would have gone a little smoother. You could have, you know, sort of squeezed on the fiscal side. Remember, he was Nikki Haley's main backer. I think more than that, I think he was a philosophical force behind her as well. And she was talking about like entitlement reform. So if you took a truly fiscally conservative approach and you detoxed the government or the economy off of government spending, you would have induced a nice, gentle recession and you would have had lower yields. And if you didn't mess with the rest of the world, or maybe you did a little bit to cause them to lower their yield, their tariffs, you know, the truly reciprocal tariffs, not the nonsense they announced on April 2nd. And let's not forget who was holding that board during Liberation Day. It was not Besant. I think if you kind of put all those things together, maybe you would have been successful. But when you're trying to renegotiate the trade relationship with the rest of the world and induce a recession and lower yields and magically get all of this to work, I think then you're fighting too many fires. Yeah, I mean, I think that's what has people nervous. It's less pulling on levers than just smashing sledgehammers around and seeing, you know, what sort of comes up and apparently like a feeling like maybe that's the intended course. I want to ask you, I want to rattle through a couple of things because I think this has been so important and a really good sort of reset for people to think about it through a different lens because honestly, you know, I think that other narrative of like a paradigm shift of a sphere and maybe misunderstanding what that means is very prevalent right now. What about gold in this environment? I think people listening to this are going to say, oh, my God, Treasury rate. There's a risk they go up. You know, this is a tricky balance the US is trying to do. We could look at another painful leg down for S&Ps if interest rates don't participate. I'm just going to stick money in gold because that's the ultimate safe haven in a situation where you have a devaluing dollar. What's your sense of that? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, look, if you have a liquidation event where everyone's selling everything, gold is going to go down. We saw that, or it's now April. You know, we're recording this April 8th. We saw that obviously happen. Yields are going to go up. People are selling yields to, you know, deal with, sorry, they're selling bonds to deal with margin calls. So effectively, what we're getting at here is the end, not of American empire, not a beginning of multipolarity. No, no, no, that's not what's happening. It's really the end of this run of 15 years, extraordinary run. They probably should have ended in 2021, but then the US actually kept doing physical stimulus under the Biden. Used it for another five years. Yeah, so yeah, gold is the anti-U.S. asset as well, in a way as well. Commodities are too, and foreign assets are as well. You just have to be careful with the timing, because in a liquidation event, which could be lasting several weeks, several days, or perhaps multi-month event, like the problem is that all of these neat little theses and themes are not necessarily going to work. And it depends what your profile is as an investor. So when I speak to a pension fund or a sovereign wealth fund, which by the way, you as an individual should try to emulate, you should not be emulating hedge funds. You should not be day training, but that's just my view. You should emulate more sovereign wealth funds and pension funds. Yeah, the story that this is the end of US exceptionalism and that you should take some of your very expensive US dollars and kind of go shopping around the world, that is actually an appropriate thing to do right now. But then don't call Marko Papic because you're down 20% on European equities over the next couple of weeks. You will be. But you just don't have time for this. You have a job, most likely, unless you're just sitting in mom's basement and trading, you know, crypto coins, which, you know, wait or waiting for interest rates to come down in mom's basement, as you save for your down payment. Well, listen, so my point is like, yes, you can start deploying assets in the rest of the world. Please go ahead and do that. Just be aware that you are in the middle of the liquidation event where a lot of these assets could go down. Yes, timing could be better in a couple of days, weeks, months. But again, you are not a day trader and catching those is going to be very, very difficult. And there's always an argument for dollar cost averaging into things. Some of the prices may be low, but it's very hard to time the exact bottom in anything. So what about my other question is as people are thinking and should be thinking internationally emerging markets. I mean, all I think the easiest way to do this again, if you're a retail investor, if you're an individual is just not to not to try to pick the country that's going to win. You know, Warren Buffett, I think he has, I think it's Warren Buffett has a great line. Like if you try to diversify, you can diversify yourself to death. And you know, that's great. He's Warren Buffett. You know, he's a legend. Most of us are not legends, you know, at least in that not picking exact winners. And so what I would say is that don't necessarily over index to anyone's story. So European defense stocks, you know, I had my hair guy who I love, he's a great at cutting hair, best in Santa Monica. But when he asks me about like European defense stocks, you know, that theme is already in the price. So what you might want to do is start thinking about, let me just deploy without discriminating into foreign assets. And I would say whatever it is, just deploy it. There are some ways to be nuanced. So for example, for a professional investor, I would sit down and actually talk to them about, you know, emerging markets in a little bit of a more nuanced perspective. Like we do need to make a call on commodities. Commodity prices will determine whether Latin America Middle East and some Southeast Asian economies outperform China, India and Eastern Europe, like as an example. But then you have to make a call on commodities. Which you've been getting clobbered by the way. Well, and that makes perfect sense because we're in a recession event. So I can have a very positive secular view on commodities and understand why they're dropping right now. So I wouldn't necessarily take anything from April 2nd to today. What I would say to people listening to this, is if you want to know the truth about the next five years, and by the way, this is just my view, obviously this may not be correct as a caveat, but if you want to have a little bit of an insight into what the next five years look like, look at the stock prices from January 1st to April 1st. That to me is the truth. And if you look at the performance there, China was actually performing the best, high risk, high reward. Europe is actually the second best in terms of the geographical area. And then Japan and then EM and then the US., which actually declined during this period. The dollar was down against the euro, massive, massive move in like two months. It went down like 6%. It's insane. Historic. But that's my truth. It's that now gold actually did okay, but it didn't do, you know, like I would say that the gains in gold that we saw from January 2023 to now, I think are over, but I also am not bearish gold. I think you can definitely keep gold. I just don't necessarily expect it to go up as much as it did over the last two years. What's the biggest risk as with that's some of where that word, some of the opportunity is, I think it's fair to say, being conscious of having a longer time horizon. What's the biggest risk for you? Is it that is it in the interest rate area that you mentioned or is it something? I think so. Yeah, I think so. If you have a recession with yields not cooperating, boy, we're not in America anymore. We're in Brazil, we're in Turkey. Look out. That's really bad. I would also say that the risk is that everything I said today is wrong. I would actually say I'm pretty sanguine. I'm not telling you to buy tomorrow, but I'm saying, listen, Trump's got his seven steps of negotiating. You're on step one. It's always, what did I say in the first 10 minutes? It's always scary when he starts. We always extrapolate linearly and see the end of humanity. And then we're like, ah, smart guy. So the risk is that no, no, he actually really thinks he's McKinley. And let me tell you, if that narrative is true, the dollar is going to absolutely collapse, right? Like if it's true that I actually see the reserve currency status as a burden, and they're going to start taxing foreign financial flows. And if it's true that they actually intend to have 60 percent tariffs, 20 to 60, depending on the country permanently, and that smooth haley is going to be, you know, like we're going to double what we had in the 30s. Yeah, I mean, that's a disaster. And the reason I would say that again, I would really go back if you're a fan of President Trump, if you're in the market camp, that's perfectly fine. I mean, I'm bathed in aloof indifference. I don't really care. But what I would just say is that if he's negotiating, he actually proved a lot of people like me, nerds wrong, as I said earlier, right? Very few countries backed up. He didn't set the price too high. Impressive. I did not expect that. My salesperson did. God bless her. But I would say this. The big risk is that if he's actually enamored with this, the math doesn't really add up. And it's because the rest of the world really is not fighting with each other. So they will adjust. They will find other markets. The worst thing for America would not be retaliation, actually, Maggie. It would just be just to kind of like, okay, we get it. We'll move on. You know, so no FDI into US. No real retaliation, just like, hey, listen, we get it. We lost a friend. I guess we'll go find some other ones. And that would be monumentally bad. Like that is, you know, that is something I don't really price. Yeah. Understandably. And hard to imagine how they'd spin that well. So that's a scary prospect. Marko, this is exactly why we always love catching up with you. Thank you so much. This gave me so much to think about, especially after listening to a lot of stuff that was sort of leaning the other way. So this is why it's really important to keep your mind open, step out of any ecosystem you're living in, and try to hear lots of different points of view, because these are really trying times. And I know people are really scared about their money. So, so appreciate you sharing your thoughts and insights. Well, if I can just make a plug at the end, that's okay with you. Yeah, so I started actually a podcast called Geopolitical Cousins with my good friend, Jacob Shapiro. And our intention is not to call the markets. That's what I do for my job with my clients. This is more for like if you have that one person in your life, like an uncle, or if you want to just be smarter, you know, when somebody attacks your position, it's purely geopolitics. It's fun. We use muppets, you know, the old two guys, the balcony. We use that as our logo because we're just being muppets. It's just entertainment. And we approach everything with sort of that aloof indifference. We're trying to just talk about geopolitics in a way that I don't think it gets talk. Right. I think that it's so wrapped up with ideology and normative. This is, I hope, a non-ideological. We try as best as we can. And it adopts that nihilist sort of aloof indifference, just tries to analyze where the world is going. So hopefully it will be a sanity check for everyone and help our listeners sound smarter at barbecues and cocktail parties. Exactly, and maybe help them discuss and not fight, which I think is really, really important right now. Discourse, we all need to lean back into discourse. I love catching up with Jacob as well. I love your podcast, so we'll put a link in. Well, thank you. Yeah, we'll put a link in the description for it. Marko, thanks so much, and we'll talk again soon. Absolutely, Maggie. Thank you.