You're listening to All the Credit, a monthly podcast series brought to you by PGIM Fixed Income, an active global fixed income investment manager. Welcome to the podcast. I'm Brian Barnhurst, global head of credit research. Today's episode is the second in the series that will examine the evolution of credit markets. I'm very fortunate to be joined by multi-sector portfolio manager Tom McCartan, who focuses on and is an expert in liability driven strategies. Thanks Brian, glad to be here. A lesser discussed byproduct of the regime shift in interest rates from the ultra-low rates of the post-GFC era to today is considerably improved funded status for defined benefit pension plans. The impacts are twofold, higher discount rates, shrinking the liability side, and then higher nominal yields bolstering opportunities on the asset side. As recently as three years ago, the 100 largest US defined benefit plans were collectively underfunded. Today, that funding ratio on average stands north of 100 percent. The paradigm shift in interest rates create a massive opportunity for sponsors to explore strategies to de-risk or even fully immunize their planned cash flows. Tom, help us make sense of the defined benefit landscape as it stands today. I think that's a really good framing, Brian, of the overall backdrop. And maybe I'll just kind of add a little bit more context in terms of where the corporate defined benefit plans are today. Clearly, it's a spectrum of the circumstances that they find themselves in. But just for the simplicity, I think we can try and define three different larger broader groupings of where the pension plans are at. As you said, their funded status is marketly improved. By and large, they have mostly closed and frozen. And most of these old style final salary pensions are now really not being offered by most corporations. And so as broad groupings, you can really divide it into three. The first set of plan sponsors are really thinking about getting out of the pension game. Their pensions no mass, let's try and transfer or move the liabilities over to insurers. So they're really trying to exit the pension game and then take the volatility and the risk from their balance sheets and move it over into the insurance world. So they're either doing that piecemeal through sequential set of transactions, all parsing out the liability into different tranches and selling those off, or they are doing it in a whole scale termination. But ultimately, for most of that grouping that's saying pensions no mass, that kind of termination is the end goal for a lot of those. The second broad grouping of plan sponsors is those plan sponsors that also want the de-risking benefits on their balance sheets of the pension to take away the volatility on the balance sheets, take away the uncertainty around contributions and impacts on their earnings, etc. But they're happy to keep the liability on balance sheets and run it down over time and pay the liabilities over time. But they want to do so in a very de-risked style asset allocation, which is going to clearly be very fixed income heavy. So they're really kind of focusing on managing down and reducing their surplus volatility. And then the third and maybe the most heterogeneous grouping, it's going to have a lot of different plan sponsors with different circumstances. But they're more thinking about maybe earning more return, growing their surplus, growing their level of assets relative to the liabilities, either because the plan is still open and accepting new members, or it could be closed, but they're still accruing new service accrual for existing participants, or they have a cash balance liability that could be still accruing, or they're in deficit and they still need to grow their assets and they don't necessarily want to close the funding gap with contributions. Or even as we've seen in some kind of recent more public examples of large sponsors, they have a lot of surplus, but they want to try and use that surplus for other means within the plan and for providing other benefits for participants. So clearly, it's a spectrum, but those are kind of the three broad groupings. And as you think through different plan types and potentially different desired outcomes, help us parse through sort of the waterfall of navigating available de-risking strategies and how you think about from the plan standpoint, timing, execution and the considerations around those factors. Yeah, if we focus in on those three different groups and then think about what they're all doing differently, the first group is very focused on this insurance solution. So naturally, what they're going to try and do and what they are trying to do is move their asset allocation close to a portfolio that's going to be desirable from an insurance company standpoint, that an insurance company would like to receive as part of a transaction and therefore not have to go out into the markets and create transaction costs to move to a portfolio that they would want. And this is going to enhance or improve the premium that the plan sponsor will get from the insurance market. So they're really trying to push their asset allocation close to what insurers want. That's not one generic asset allocation because all insurers have different preferences around which assets they prefer, but generically it's like create a portfolio that's a little bit more insurance friendly or insurance attractive. The second grouping, that grouping that's going to hold the liability on balance sheet but try and really reduce the funded status volatility is necessarily going to have a very fixed income heavy asset allocation. The liabilities are all valued with AA bond yields and so they're going to be building a big portfolio of bonds that's going to try and hedge as closely as possible the risk of the liability. And then the approaches within that are going to be varied. Some are going to very strictly hedge the accounting liability, which is all AA corporate bonds. And then some are going to take a bit more of a broader approach and look for a portfolio that's got a kind of broader array of sectors across the fixed income and credit markets included within that asset allocation, thereby taking a little bit more risk to the accounting liability in order to have a little bit more attractive portfolio. And then the third group, again, mentioning that just with the precursor, that it's a little bit more of a heterogeneous group dependent on where they are in terms of funded status. Are they very underfunded? Are they very overfunded? There's going to be a whole array of different approaches within that bucket that's going to include growth assets and other assets that can be outside of bonds, but they're still likely going to be trying to reduce a lot of their less well-compensated liability risks. So hedging as much of their interest rate risk as possible. And a lot of the principles around trying to optimize or improve the risk adjusted return of their overall portfolio is going to apply for that group. Super helpful. And then I want to talk about asset allocation. Before we get there, I'm curious with the change in interest rate backdrop, when we talked about the impacts on both liability and the asset side, is there a ground swell of activity in the LDI space? Where are we in sort of the cadence of attention on potentially de-risking plans? I think it's a great point because there's clearly a lot of activity within plans we mentioned in those three groups. But then we should also mention two other groupings of different types of pension plans, where there is also a kind of building level of activity as well. The first is the multi-employer or Taft-Hartley plans, whereby through the American Rescue Plan Act, there was pretty sizable contribution into those plans to help them improve their funding, which really picked up the funded level of a lot of those plans. But there were certain conditions around how they could invest those assets, which were a lot more akin to certain LDI principles of being focused on fixed income, being focused on the duration of their liabilities in terms of how they invested those assets. You're referring to, I think, an $80 billion cash injection tucked into the American Rescue Act during the COVID era. That's correct. That's correct. And it really changed the paradigm for those plans, whereby Taft-Hartley plans and public plans really hadn't been in an LDI paradigm for a long period of time because of differences in how they account for their liabilities. They don't use interest rates to value their liabilities. They use an expected return on assets. So as interest rates fluctuate, it doesn't change the value of their liabilities. So they didn't feel it necessary to try and hedge that risk by buying long duration bonds. But the American Rescue Plan Act contributions that you referred to had some strings attached. And some of those strings were to invest with more LDI principles, more bonds, more liability matching for those extra funds that were put in to get them better funded. And so the strings attached were to try and make sure that they don't get underfunded again in the future. Likewise, on the public plan space, another set of pension plans that because of the accounting haven't had the incentive to do LDI, but there are changes afoot and there is transition happening in public plans now where certain states are moving more towards a 401k or DC model, trying to get new employees auto enrolled into more self-discretionary 401k style pensions, which then necessarily makes the old style DB pensions more of a legacy pension. And much, much further down the line, those type of states could go through the same transition that corporate DB has gone through, whereby those final salary pensions become more of a legacy style balance sheet item. And because of that legacy nature pushes them to do more de-risking and try and reduce the volatility associated with those liabilities by better matching the liabilities. What's really interesting to me is at the same time as we've had this paradigm shift in planned funded status to position, let's say, the industry, for lack of a better word, to think about de-risking strategies or to be in a better position to explore de-risking strategies, it's coincided with an evolution of investment approach on the asset management side, which I think is really interesting. So you have sort of a lot of forces converging. Once plan sponsors make a decision to pursue LDI strategies, help us think through the evolution in solutioning for those strategies, and then obviously we want to talk about our approach. Yeah, and it all starts from where you began the podcast, which is that yields are higher now, a lot more so. That's improved funded levels for a lot of different plans, but it's also for plans that have kind of fixed levels of target return, like 7% or 8% return bogey. It's brought bonds much closer to those levels and allowed more plans to think about higher allocations to fixed income within those. Within the corporate defined benefit plan space, I think there's two schools of thought of how you try and go about building a de-risking solution. There is a more traditional approach where you really do stick to try and buy the bonds that the liabilities are discounted with. So that's really AA long dated bonds. And then there's another school of thought whereby you can get a little bit better relative value by diversifying the portfolio a little bit outside of that single sector. I feel like for a very long period of time, basically the home asset class for LDI was high quality corporates. And I think we're both on the same page that long high quality corporates are arguably structurally rich and non-dynamic from a portfolio construction standpoint. And maybe that's a great segue into your core role in the team you sit on, the multi-sector portfolio management team, which I think is sort of a good moniker for thinking about our portfolio construction approach and solutioning approach to LDI strategies. Yeah, and it may have even been that that accounting approach that dictated to all pension plans, you know, from the 80s onwards, that they had to value their liabilities with these bonds that created a huge amount of trillions of dollars in effect of captive demand that were effectively required to buy these bonds in order to hedge them, a little bit of that structural richness that you refer to. But we do think that it then creates an opportunity for plans to take a little bit more risk, a little bit more tracking error to that accounting liability by including some credit sectors that are not necessarily those long high quality bonds within the overall portfolio construction, whether this is corporate bonds of different qualities and maturities, whether it is below investment grade bonds, securitized credits or credit derivatives, there is relatively good relative value for including some of those sectors. If the portfolio construction is thoughtful enough of how to manage the different risks, some of them can be relatively attractive versus those long double A bonds. The legacy portfolio construct is really focused on corporates. We've been really thoughtful about bringing structured product into the fold. How do you think about corporating structured products, a little shorter in duration, typically floating rate into the asset allocation when you're building LDI solutions alongside corporates? In general, we like the asset class in Securitized Credit. And for the asset allocation framework that I outlined, where you can think about diversifying outside of long dated corporates, it is one of the asset classes that we include within that framework, and we do tend to have allocations to it. Certainly, in today's market environment, with tighter levels of spreads, flatter spread curves, asset classes which give you more risk remote, higher levels of carry that are sitting on the front end of the spread curves, seem attractive to us. Some of the things you have to think about with the asset classes, a lot of it is floating rates. That's going to necessitate using interest rate derivatives to hedge back to the longer duration of the liability. So liquidity is key. Can you sell some of those assets to generate collateral for your collateral needs? Are there other securities in the portfolio that you can use for collateral purposes? So you're going to keep some treasuries or cash in there. But by and large, we do like the risk remote carry relative to corporate bonds. And then relatedly, we recently did an episode on ABF, sort of the topic du jour in markets right now, although maybe being overshadowed, hopefully for the short time, by tariffs. But how do you think about incorporation of private assets into LDI strategies? I know there's myriad of considerations, but we'd be interested in your perspective. Yeah, I think the same comments that I made about including securitized assets within that multi sector LDI framework apply. But just with the additional caveats of now you're further sacrificing liquidity for that sacrifice, I think you need that additional compensation of spread for some of those asset classes to be included. So I think that's going to be what plant sponsors are going to be focusing on. Is the additional spread, I guess, enough to compensate for the additional sacrifice in liquidity? If you're running that type of multi sector asset allocation that's also supported by derivatives, the movements in interest rates is going to require the asset allocation to be rebalanced as different sectors have got different durations and are going to change in value and move you away from your strategic asset allocation. Rebalancing is going to be important. And then funding collateral is going to be important. So for private assets, you're going to sacrifice a little bit of those abilities. You definitely need that additional compensation, but it does fit within the overall framework of thinking about that the LDI portfolio doesn't necessarily need to be all long AA corporate bonds. And since you touched on it, one of the things I wanted to get your perspective on was the way in which you employ derivatives as an enhancement to cash strategies when constructing solutions. Yeah, I think it's really important for us to hedge the interest rate risk pretty closely of the liability. Interest rates are not as quickly mean reverting as spreads are in certain cases. And so while we're more happy to take on spread reinvestment risk by being positioned somewhat shorter on the credit curves, that doesn't necessarily hold within interest rates as well. So we're typically more trying to hedge out all of our erate risk in interest rate space. And having a toolkit that has got various different interest rate products in there, whether it's swaps or treasury futures or strips, is important for being able to implement that multi-sector LDI portfolio construction, which may have shorter duration or floating rate credit asset classes in there. I think the other potential use case is for large transactions where there's an expediency required, a threshold has been met and the sponsor is ready to action. Derivatives can help us move quickly at scale whilst we build out a longer term cash allocation. Relatedly, how do you think about plan size and the match between solution types and size? So everything we've talked about thus far today is agnostic of size and both smaller plans and larger plans are going to be trying to implement some of what we've talked about. But it is true that at a certain point of size, separate accounts can start to become less practical for certain plans. And so, those smaller plans are still trying to implement some of the ideas we've been talking about. And so, one of the things we've been doing recently and working with some of them on is how to blend more commingled strategies in order to achieve some of the same portfolio construction results. And so, that's going to really help some smaller plans try and still take on some of these multi-sector LDI philosophies, but you need scale across a number of different LDI type commingled vehicles. Thanks, Tom. It's certainly a really neat time in the LDI space, which is probably not something that could have always been said. The interest rate shift has been a shot in the arm for planned liabilities, coupled with cash injections from the American Retirement Act, which we talked about, has bolstered funded status and has planned sponsors thinking about solutions for de-risking. At the same time, that change in nominal interest rate has really created an environment where assets can earn a pretty attractive rate of return, the sum total of which makes it a really compelling time to think about LDI solutions. Thanks again for your time. Always a great conversation. If you'd like more thought leadership from PGIM Fixed Income, including detailed work on LDI related topics, please check us out on pgimfixedincome.com. We hope you enjoyed today's podcast. Subscribe to keep up with the latest episodes of All the Credit. For more insights and thought leadership, visit pgimfixedincome.com. This podcast is intended solely for professional investor use. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. All investments involve risk, including the loss of capital. This material is not for distribution to any recipient located in any jurisdiction where such distribution is unlawful. This podcast includes the views and opinions of the authors and may not reflect PGIM Fixed Income's views. PGIM and its related entities may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the views expressed herein. This podcast should not be reproduced without PGIM's prior written consent. No liability is accepted for any direct, indirect or consequential laws that may arise from the use of any information contained in or derived from this podcast. PGIM Fixed Income is not acting as your fiduciary. The contents are for informational purposes only, are based on information available when created, and are subject to change. It is not intended as investment, legal or tax advice, and does not consider a recipient's financial objectives. PGIM Fixed Income is a business unit of PGIM, the global asset management business of Prudential Financial Inc., which is not affiliated in any manner with Prudential PLC, incorporated in the United Kingdom, or with Prudential Assurance Company, a subsidiary of M&G PLC, incorporated in the United Kingdom. Copyright 2025. The PGIM logos and the rock symbol are service marks of PGIM and its related entities registered in many jurisdictions worldwide.