All right, friends, if you were sick of hearing me drone on about Sumus all season one, then my apologies in advance for what's to follow with our season two sponsor. As most people who know me have already heard ad nauseum, I'm completely obsessed with this company because it has fundamentally changed daily life for me. Actually, it's changed my nightly life. That's right, I'm talking about EightSleep. Now, I've been an amateur biohacker for decades. My parents say it began around age 10 when I was psychologically crushed by a bad report card from our pediatrician that resulted in me being given the name Mr. Cholesterol by my family. Anyway, since then, I've focused on nutrition, exercise, sauna, cold plunge, and lots of other stuff. But over time, I've come to the point of view that sleep is perhaps the most important variable in the equation for my health. And for most of my life, it's also been the most elusive. Whether it's getting the monkey brain to turn off to go to sleep or staying asleep with, in my case, three young kids who it often feels like their sole objective when the sun goes down is to wake us up as many times as possible. A couple of years ago, I started to notice a bunch of people I respect jump on the EightSleep train. Doctors like Peter Atiyah and Andrew Huberman, CEOs like Mark Zuckerberg, and athletes like this year's US Open Tennis Finalist, Taylor Fritz. So, I decided to text three of my friends, Patrick O'Shaughnessy, David Senra, and Brent B. Shore, who I knew were all using EightSleep, and I sent them the same text. It read, Is this really legit? Seems too good to be true. They all responded about identically. Get it, you won't regret it. It didn't take long for me to experience what they were talking about. Literally on my first night using EightSleep, I got a full hour or more of deep sleep. And my heart rate variability, one of the most important vital signs for recovery and overall health, literally almost doubled from the low 30s to the 60s. What's even better, all of this was measured not just by EightSleep, but independently by my aura ring, which I had been wearing for many years. It's now been over a year, and I'm telling you EightSleep has been a total game changer. And I didn't have to change a single other thing from a lifestyle standpoint. If my house is on fire, I'm grabbing my wife, I'm grabbing my three kids, and I'm grabbing my EightSleep. Probably, but not necessarily in that order. If you're looking to improve your daily life and overall health, I would equate not giving EightSleep a try to insanity. Every serious executive, investor, athlete and exhausted parent needs to be supporting their physical and cognitive recovery with this incredible technology. Am I a doctor? No. Am I qualified to give medical advice? Probably not. Am I crazy? Maybe. But I'm telling you I'm right about this one. So check it out at eightsleep.com/joys. And when you do, you'll get $350 off the new Pod 4 Ultra. That's eightsleep.com/joys. Hello, and welcome to The Joys of Compounding. We're still on the same mission, to study greatness in order to help you find and compound your life's work as fast as possible for as long as possible. I'm Paul Buser. And I'm Rick Berman. We're your hosts, and each session, our teachers will be some of the world's most compelling people from across the vast range of human achievement. This show is brought to you by Pine Grove Studios in collaboration with Colossus. The hosts of the show, Rick Berman and Paul Buser, are the co-founders and co-CEOs of Seda Grove Holdings and co-CEOs of Seda Grove Management Company. All opinions expressed by any of Rick, Paul or their podcast guests are solely their own and do not reflect the opinion of either Seda Grove Holdings or Seda Grove Management Company. This podcast is intended for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as the basis for investment decisions. Seda Grove Holdings or clients of Seda Grove Management Company may maintain positions and securities discussed in this podcast. Take your seats. Class is in session. Our teacher today is Chad Cascarilla, co-founder and CEO of Paxos, the leading regulated blockchain infrastructure company that is re-imagining a complete technological re-platforming of our global financial markets. This conversation was a ton of fun for us, mainly because Chad is just one of the most fascinating and compelling people I've had the privilege of knowing and learning from. I think one dimension of this, and hopefully this comes through in our conversation with him, is that he embodies a number of dualities, almost paradoxes that I've rarely seen present at the same time in the same person. On the one hand, he's a successful hedge fund investor, who was one of the earliest and most accurate at identifying and capitalizing off the excesses and bubbles that catalyzed the global financial crisis. And on the other, he's a founder who is operating one of the most exciting growth companies and one of the most promising areas of technology today. He's a highly introspective, integrated, and ridiculously well-read thinker, and someone who just gets a lot of stuff done. He's a skeptic and a dreamer, a rigorous research analyst and a visionary builder. And as you'll hear in this episode, an aspiring mystic and an absolute animal. In addition to this alchemy of traits, Chad is building in a space that is of great promise in terms of how Blockchain technology can contribute to solving some seismic challenges facing markets and society today. Currently, over a billion people around the world are either unbanked or underbanked, while trillions of dollars are locked in inefficient, outdated financial plumbing. Paxos is seeking to democratize the financial system to enable assets of nearly any kind to instantaneously move anywhere in the world at any time in a trustworthy way. They partner with leading global enterprises to tokenize custody and trade assets, and their blockchain solutions are used by who's who of financial and payment leaders, including PayPal, Stripe, Interactive Brokers, MasterCard, MercadoLibre, Newbank, and many others. Particularly for those of you who, like me and Paul, have struggled to understand the potential of blockchain in the midst of so much speculative noise around crypto, I think you'll benefit from this conversation given Chad's grounded perspective, his first principles orientation, and his roots as a fundamental investor who came to crypto and blockchain not from trying to make a quick trade, but rather through the lens of seeing it as a potential solution to the systemic problems in our financial system. Now, having said that, he started buying and mining Bitcoin at just three cents. That's three pennies. With those original purchases equating to a roughly three million bagger at the time of this recording, this is without a doubt the greatest example of compounding we've ever documented. So with that, I hope you enjoy our conversation. With our friend and Blockchain's carpenter, Chad Cascarilla. Where to begin? That's a broad remit here. How far back do you want to go? Take us all the way, Chad, all the way back. Tear in my eye thinking about how long it's been. 48 years now. Doesn't feel like 48. Anyway, I was born in Lansing, grew up in Cleveland, moved a couple of times, whatever, around Cleveland and off to Notre Dame. And Notre Dame to Chicago, Chicago to New York, New York to Miami. That gets you all the way up to the very beginning, from the beginning to now. But growing up in Cleveland, wherever you grew up, it's always gonna shape you in pretty profound ways because that's kind of like your starting point. We grew up in a blue collar part of the city of Cleveland proper. And the west side of Cleveland, the diversity is, is it Fox or Kelly, or O'Shaughnessy is your last name. Basically, there's some type of Catholic, especially if you go to Irish Catholics, especially if you go to Peruvian schools, which I did. That was always a world that you lived in and I think like a really good grounding for later life because you can always remember what it was like being in a hard scrabble town. That's really about loyalty and working hard. We're going to come to your dreams of re-platforming the entire financial system. What were the dreams of your youth? Do you remember your interests, your passions, what you thought you wanted to be when you first thought you wanted to be something? You're a kid, you want to be like a pirate or something. I think I wanted to be a carpenter. Maybe if I go back that far, the first thing I remember, I want to build stuff. But I was thinking a little more with nails and a hammer and a saw as opposed to maybe with technology. I remember I bought my first share of stock when I was in, I don't know, I want to say it was third or fourth grade, it was LTV steel. I don't know exactly why I thought that was going to be a good investment coming out of bankruptcy. But anyways, I bought it and it was always fun being able to look at the financial section of the newspaper and see all the different stocks. You could go down, this is what you had to do back in the day. You even have online brokers and you could see how much the stock went up. You're like, oh my God, it went up a dollar. I just made a dollar. That's amazing. I don't have to do anything. You're like, I really should figure out how to do this investing more so I can not have to do anything. So I thought. Anyways, the family, I grew up in a very entrepreneurial, so everyone has their small businesses, whatever. My family in Cleveland, my mom's side of the family, their Lebanese family. Lebanese people are very entrepreneurial. So everyone is talking about a business all the time. Buy some land and build this thing or do that or whatever might be. So that's in the water. I remember having jobs my entire childhood. So you're always thinking about how do you work hard? What are different ways in which you can make money and solve problems? Then I came across LTV Steel, so to speak, and I became a little bit captured by investing. I knew I wanted to do that in some way or other, but you don't really know what that means. But there is some ability to turn that into a profession, evolved over time because as you got into the 90s, when I was growing up and technology was starting to come online, you could start having an online stock account because there was Ameritrade or E-Trade. I remember even being able to call, I forget what it was, DLJ Director or something, and you could call up on your phone and place trades. This wasn't your cell phone, obviously, because this was the 90s, you're calling up on a rotary phone or a dial phone and putting trades in, which I distinctly remember doing. Then you could get a computer and you could log in to AOL and there's the Motley Fool. This was in like mid-92, 93 or something. You could really start to begin to see how you could invest and be more interactive with the market than maybe how it had been in the past. At the same time, technology wasn't just changing trading, it was also changing society and you could invest in these tech stocks and Microsoft and etc. that were just starting to capture the imagination. That really felt very cool too. Well, here's these new technologies that I'm screwing around with and building computers and dialing up the Internet with 12.2 kilobyte per second, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot. You could download a JPEG in about five minutes. You're like, well, I can also buy this company. That really was the way in which it was all swirling together, but not really in some intentional way. I think it was just this idea of, well, there's interesting ways in which you could try to make money. You can invest. You can see how the world is changing and be a part of it. Yeah. We first met while I was in Notre Dame. I think you had just graduated. I think you were probably already at Goldman. If I remember, we met through our good mutual friend, Scott Malpass, who was a long time chief investment officer. But I feel like throughout my life, both personally and professionally, there have been probably four or five times where something really important and complicated was in front of me. And I think every time one of Scott's pieces of advice was, you should call Chad. Certainly, as I came back to work at the endowment and all of a sudden, 2007, things are starting to get interesting and complicated. We should call Chad and figure out what's really happening with these banks. Fast forward a few more years and it's with crypto. So we'll come to that. But I'm curious just how you ended up in Notre Dame, how your college years contributed to shaping you. You spent four years, I think, with the Jesuits in high school and then up to Nuremberg. Yeah. I went to St. Ignatius in Cleveland, which is an all-boys Jesuit high school. I went to a bunch of different Catholic schools and public schools. St. Ignatius was really just an unbelievable experience, an unbelievable school, and I think potentially, certainly the best high school that you could go to on the west side of Cleveland, I think, in my opinion. And so I'm really grateful that I had a chance to go there. I graduated in 95 from there and I went to Notre Dame. I went to Notre Dame, my dad went to Notre Dame, one of my uncles went to Notre Dame, my mom and all of her sisters went to St. Mary's. Notre Dame at the time was single, so it was in the co-ed, so the girls' school was St. Mary's and the guys' school was Notre Dame. I went, grew up going back to both schools all the time. They're like across the street from each other, going to football games and everything else. I didn't know I could actually go anywhere else. I thought I could only go to Notre Dame. And my wife went to Boston College and the one agreement we have is that our children are allowed to go to whatever college they want. They just can't believe they can go anywhere except for Notre Dame. They have to think they have to go to Notre Dame, they can go wherever they want. But I kind of felt like it was in my blood. Both St. Ignatius and Notre Dame were foundational experiences for me because that's the way in which you're acculturated into like society, your teenage years basically from whatever ends up being I guess 14 to 22 or something in my case. We've heard from others that you're an extremely integrated person and it's interesting hearing the way you frame those years 14 to 22 as impactful on you as they are on all humans. But what is it about you that turned that light on to integrate a lot of aspects of life including I think spirituality, mysticism, and of course picking stocks, caring about financial markets. Where did that happen? When did you start to realize that maybe being an integrated person could be useful for life and in your career? Well, I think it's always a journey. Rudolf Steiner has a fairly interesting model for development. 0-7, 7-14, and 14-21 has the three phases of growing up, and so that's why high school and college are so important, that 14-21 is pretty foundational. Everyone's journey is going to be a product of your family, where you lived, and depending on exactly how you believe it, when you were born and all your past lives. You roll them all together and out comes you. There's a nature and a nurture component to that. I don't know exactly where it came from and what I did in some past life in order to end up where I'm at exactly now. But you also get to make a lot of choices and those will shape you too. I played tennis growing up. I wasn't very good, at least not as good as my sisters, who were both nationally ranked and got Division I scholarships. I was telling Rick earlier, I think I'm having a good day. I'm like maybe a good Division III tennis player. That's taught me out. Part of the reason is that it's a total basket case. Which by the way, that's better than any Division I athlete of any other sport. Congratulations for that. Well, thanks. In my opinion, of course. It is the best sport. There's no doubt about it. David Foster Wallace called it physical chess. And I just I love that description of tennis. I think it is physical chess. I wasn't very good and I was a bit of a basket case. Sadly, I think I am still a bit of a basket case on the tennis court. You would think after like 10,000 hours of meditating, you wouldn't be. Still am. My great frustration. I don't know how I think I'm going to suddenly be good only playing a couple of times a month. But anyways, have these unfair expectations, which is the thing that kills you on the tennis court. My mom took me to a Zen Tai Chi master who lived down the street. Basically said, you should learn how to meditate. And my sisters as well, because maybe it'll help you on the tennis court. I started doing Tai Chi and meditating and I thought it was really great. Helpful and useful. I didn't really understand what I was doing. But I did have a chance to practice it and learn it. And that was my introduction into meditation and different ways of thinking about yourself or trying to understand reality, so to speak. Chad, are those practices that you've maintained on and off or continually? And if so, just what would you say about how they've benefited you? Rick actually has all the answers. We talk about this all the time. I do want to put in a plug for a different podcast. Once you're done, of course, listening to this Joys of Compounding episode, I would run to The Telepathy Tapes by Kai Dickens. It's a new podcast documentary series that this wonderful documentarian discovered some really interesting things about one of the most marginalized people groups, I would say, in our society, which is completely non-verbal autistic children. And the reason I've been encouraging everybody that is willing to listen to me to go check this out is because it's a really beautiful story about these exceptional gifts that are embedded in this group of children that is perceived to be so disabled. And yet, I think what she's in the process of discovering is that they're enabled in ways that most of us are not. But secondarily and more importantly, I think as you go through, you'll begin to see that if any of this is directionally accurate, it actually is revealing a level of consciousness and a level of truly living that's available actually to all of us, but somehow we're disconnected from. So anyways, I think part of it is that there's so much that goes into even just neuromotor planning that goes into acting and being in the physical world that may actually be pulling us away from interacting with an actual deeper reality. And it's just something to ponder at a minimum for each of us. But I think this idea of why do we all seem so asleep most of the time with these very basic inquiries that obviously all of us, when you pointed out, would be quick to say, well, if that is the case, aren't these some of the most important things that I should be thinking about or spending time trying to tap into, et cetera? And yet, there's, I think, a variety of reasons. Most of them probably are cultural, but also just individual. We all have egos that preclude us from maybe tapping into some really extraordinary realities. I think there's a separate vein of the rabbit hole. Paul would rather talk about your analyst position. Yeah, let's talk about the analyst. There's something really interesting, because we talk about it a lot with the conversations we have with folks on Joys of Compounding. And it's just the idea of curiosity. And there's a lot of ways to frame that. But even just the way you said that, most people don't ask why about consciousness or what is behind that. But I think that same number of people or percentage of people don't ask why about just about anything. There's aspects of human nature where that's really good. You get to homeostasis. Every day, you don't have to think about providing yourself with a job or food or people around you. We get lulled in to getting used to that. We don't ask why. And so maybe that's at, say, at university when you're at Notre Dame or we'll get into Goldman and your experience is there and beyond. And then this broader theme of the financial services system, hasn't it gone down a path that's not ideal? And almost everybody who's in that system might realize it, but they don't really think about it that often. And they're not going to do anything about it. Our version with our holding company is we're not trying to subvert the system. We're not trying to necessarily prove anything differently. It's, I think, our insatiable curiosity to ask why would you invest a certain way? Or why would you think about company building a certain way when all the lessons of history, physics, biology tell us that compounding is this magical force? And so you might as well have a system that can grow with duration and where you can change your mind so you can adapt to a changing environment. Can you reflect on that with your path and why you ask why? And then tangibly how that impacted you with these various phases of your career? Such an interesting question. Apparently, young kids always ask why, but apparently I was really quite persistent on it. I became somewhat infamous around the neighborhood for asking everybody why about whatever they were doing until they lost their mind, whether fixing a car or mowing the lawn. So I guess I've always wanted to know why. You ask the question why long enough, you're gonna start getting to some deep place. And I think that's always gonna be true because you're getting to eventually first principles of something. That is the bedrock that allows you to then be able to have a way to organize the rest of your thinking. And so when you're operating, not in first principles, but in some derivative, that world is probably stable and makes sense for some period of time. But usually, eventually, something's going to shift and you're going to have to get the first principles. I also think those are the most interesting questions to ask about yourself, but they're also the most interesting investing moments. Is now when you're in some derivative state that is in homeostasis, or in some temporary equilibrium and you're just trying to maybe eke out another 50 basis points more than anybody else, because you're all operating in some equilibrium state, it's where can you go find things when they're not in equilibrium, or there's a fundamental shift that's happening that is based on first principles, and you can really then create fundamental change and fundamentally big return opportunities. Yeah, one of the things that's, I think, somewhat notable about your investing career is how early on you started your investment firm, you co-founded with your partner, Emil Woods. Obviously, there's plenty of young entrepreneurs, but I think in the financial community, it's not nearly as common. I am curious how you would describe your education as an investor. When you look at the foundation of your investment philosophy, because again, I think when we begin to talk about Paxos, and we begin to talk about a completely new way of thinking about a better financial system, it's really important, I think, to understand where you were coming from. As you were generating these insights, first about the problems with the existing sort of antiquated legacy system, but then also reimagining what's possible. How would you describe that sort of early education as an investor? What did you learn and from whom, and then how much of it was more self-directed? Kind of mentioned how I started all the way back in grade school and reading everything I could find, from warm Buffett letters to George Soros books to stories about tiger in the newspaper, blowing up on giant Japanese yen trades, amongst other things. So interesting to try to think about different types of businesses, which businesses are good businesses, what are good managers, what are good opportunities. When I was at Notre Dame, I was a finance major. That was probably a regret of mine, actually. I wish I was a PLS major, a Program of Liberal Studies, where you read all the great books. Because when you get the time to read the great books again, that would be first principles. Whereas being a finance major is a little bit of a derivative major. I, as a finance major, had the opportunity to be in a class that I know. You're in the AIM class, which is Applied Investment Management and ran some of the endowment. It was an unbelievable class, it was a life-changing class. It really helped me to understand Wall Street, which I had no idea what that meant. I don't know what a sell side was or a buy side was or different VC funds or whatever was buy side and how they worked. You got to really have that exposure in that class and really create some more fundamental rigor around how to think about businesses from a quantitative perspective, and of course, deploy capital. I'd probably been doing that for a long time anyway, six or seven or years, at least, maybe more. Even thinking about portfolios and really loving that challenge of how could you think about what the future might look like? Where could you invest because that's where the world was going to go? That led me after Notre Dame to the sell side, mainly because that's where you can go get trained. That's not maybe always necessarily the case now, but back in 99, that was really where you went. My hope had been to go to Tiger, actually, where that's how I met Kevin Becker, who I worked with later. Him and Brian Olson were both a Tiger and Notre Dame guys. Tiger ended up hiring Andy Warford, which was the right choice. Being able to both invest on the long side and the short side and understanding how to short stocks and be long stocks just sounded unbelievable to me, but it wasn't meant to be. So I went to the sell side and I went to Bank of America. I was doing high-yield investment banking. A lot of people don't remember this, but basically the markets more or less shut down in August of 99 because the fixed income markets kind of figured out that the economy was starting to tank. But that wasn't clear until March of 2000 when the stock markets beat. So the fixed income markets got it a lot earlier. And so after school, you basically went in, you got trained, I lived in Charlotte, and then I went to Chicago and you're working there. And I don't know, I think there's like one bond deal that happened, Teneco Automotive. And I remembered Teneco Automotive because we were like a co-lead on it with 20 other investment banks. And I didn't know anything in hindsight, but I distinctly remember working on this deal going, this firm is guaranteed to go bankrupt. This is a terrible business. Why are we underrunning this and selling these bonds? And the answer was, we're just a co-lead. We're not the actual book runners and people want to buy this stuff, whatever, we're going to help them do it. And I was like, hold on a second. I thought we were like trying to like help companies, like figure out how to like do the best thing. And I was like, this doesn't make any sense to me. And then there were no deals. Goldman was still hiring because it was Nasdaq 5000 with the top down. So they needed analysts and I was supposed to go work for the technology analyst in research, which to me would have been an obvious dream job. Laura Canegliaro, who was the analyst coming to Microsoft and all these great companies. I got hired and I was going to go work for her. And somehow the financial services analyst lost his analyst. He managed to get himself put to like the front of the line. And I was supposed to go work for Laura instead I ended up going to work for this great guy named Bob Hutton, covering financial services companies, but not normal financial services companies. It was the ones like mortgage guarantee companies and Fannie and Freddie and some thrifts, credit card companies, just weird off the run stuff, not like Bank of America. It was like the stuff you'd never heard of, Radian. Obviously, some of us began to hear more about some of the bond guarantee companies like Amback and MBIA that all blew to smithereens. Actually, it ended up being the best thing that ever happened to me is that I started covering these financial services companies. Though in hindsight, it seemed like a sad detour away from technology and what I had spent really my whole whatever you would want to call that investing time. Certainly not, I wouldn't call it much of a career at that point, but investing time in technology companies. That's how I ended up Goldman and that's how I ended up in financial services world. I'm thinking about that chronology of that and March 2000 is when the markets peak. I think it's also the exact month that Tiger closes down and returns capital to outside investors. It was the top. I think they created the top by covering everything. Having to sell all of these really great companies that they had owned. All these Tiger Cubs from Viking to Lone Pine launched, and they had the greatest trade of all time, which is being along all of these beaten down value stocks. At the same time, you could be short, petstock.com, and you had so much alpha, because even while the technology bubble was blowing to pieces, you had this entire reflation trade in value stocks like you've never seen. We were talking to our mutual friend, Patrick O'Shaughnessy, about you, and he told us a little secret about your Goldman days, kind of glossing over it, but we heard your nickname was The Animal, and there's a lot of reasons you could be called that there, but you need to share. Are you sure it wasn't the Mystic? It was the Mystic who's lived a thousand past lives, who's also the Animal? Unlike maybe today, I was able to function on a lot less sleep and be able to operate at a much higher level. I was able to hop on flights and just sleep on a plane for two hours, and then either go to work or wherever I was going to go and be able to function. I could sleep on floors. I mean, it was unbelievable what I could do. I'm like a shadow of my former self. When I think back now, I think there's like one month, I think I worked like 30 days straight, multiple like all-nighters. I don't know, somehow I got the moniker Animal as a result of it. I don't think I've heard that one in probably 20 some years. But anyways, that's where it came from, the ability to really be able to push the limits and just keep going. Our listeners should know that our recording was delayed 30 minutes because Rick spent all that time pitching you on EightSleep. Prior to that and prior to knowing that you were called the animal for not sleeping. I'm glad that we spent 30 minutes on it because if it does what Rick says, it's going to add many years of productivity back to my life. So you're the animal you've got this time at Goldman. We also talked before we hit record about just the idea that you're an entrepreneur. I know there's Tiger Cubs, we talked about Tiger, but it's not that normal for someone to just say, I'm gonna go start my own investment firm with how young you were. Why was that? Why did you need to start Cedar Hill? I went to Goldman and when my two-year analyst program was up, it was a question of where am I gonna go? I wanted to go to the buy side and I really wanted to go to one of the Tiger Cubs. I interviewed a bunch of them because I had known Kevin Becker from Notre Dame, where I had interviewed at Tiger, which was now no longer in existence, there are only Tiger Cubs. I interviewed with them and he said, well, I'm gonna go start up Playborn, you should come with me and help start up this fund. That's how it came about. And so I traveled around with him all over the world, raising money, was there from before it even launched and was kind of his analyst helping him do everything. And of course he had other people that helped launch Playborn as well. But I got to see in a front row seat, sitting next to him every single day for six months, how do you basically start a fund? That was an unbelievable experience. Playborn was somewhat eclectic because he had been a Tiger, but he had also worked at SAC. And SAC is now.72 and had unbelievable years when he was there. And he had unbelievable years trading and running money. You had a style of Tiger, which is really this fundamental investing, growth at a reasonable price type thing. And these on the long side, unsustainable business models on the short side with catalyst. And then you had SAC, which was really about how are you able to take advantage of market anomalies and dislocations and events from a trading perspective. That's what got him to go start Clayborne. I was like, well, that sounds pretty cool. You could really have a chance to see this thing from the ground up. It was also right when the hedge fund explosion was starting. There had only been a few hedge funds. It really became quite a large hodage industry because you began to have Goldman and Morgan Stanley have prime brokerages and these other prime brokerages. It was almost like soup to nuts. It was like they just built a hedge fund platform for you effectively. Anybody could pretty much show up and you can get a prime brokerage account, which is basically a trading account, but a fancy one. They'll give you the list of 100 people who invest or whatever, 200 people that invest in hedge funds, and alternative asset managers, and you go talk to them and see if you can convince them to give you money. Claiborne was one of the biggest launches way back in 2001, and it happened just before September 11th. It was supposed to launch right around September 11th. Obviously, what a tragedy had been working right down in lower Manhattan at one-year plaza, which is right across from where the World Trade Centers were. It's the second tallest building down there aside from the World Trade Centers. Had a bunch of friends who had been at Goldman or wherever, and they went to go work in different firms and in the World Trade Center. It was an unbelievable tragedy. It was also a tragedy if Claybrook was going to launch as a result of that. But it did end up launching on October 1st, 2001. It was a big launch and really had big returns initially. What was very cool about it is Kevin gave people portfolios to run. So I got a portfolio after I don't know how long he decided to do this, maybe six or nine months into it. He gave me a portfolio to run. So you can start to build a track record. That's one of the hardest things to do is, how do you build a track record running money? Well, I have my E-Trade account. Look what I bought when I was 18 years old. Obviously, that's not going to cut it. Well, hey, I worked at Goldman. I was on the sell side. Whatever. That's not the same thing as putting money to work or even being on the buy side. Great training, by the way, but not the same thing. I'm an analyst somewhere. That's still not the same thing as running money. Having the opportunity to run money in a professional setting, is more common now, but very rare back then. That means you can build up a track record. You can show people, hey, look, this is how I did every month, and this is how I did for years, and I had a good track record of running. What was a global financials portfolio, investing in financial services companies globally. Gave me an unbelievable amount of exposure at a young age where I was like, oh yeah, you can be the financials PM. I'm 24 years old. We're not going to get that anywhere else. That experience was very accelerated. I kind of looked at, you need to work 100 hours a week coming out of school, because in two years you can get whatever, 20,000 hours or something like that or 10,000 hours. So you're accelerating your learning and you keep doing that. You may or may not be the smartest person in the world, but the one thing you can control is if you're the hardest working person in the world. Probably the nickname animal is like, how can you be the hardest working person, because that compounds. The extra time that you are doing will compound. I looked at that opportunity at Clayborne as a way to create enormous amounts of compounding as an investor, professional investor, not just learning the skills of investing, modeling and analyzing and reading and critical thinking and talking and visiting. Essentially, when my time at Clayborne ended, I thought, well, should I go work someplace else or should I start my own? I don't know what I should do. I explored both avenues, by the way. I've been really great friends with my co-founder since Goldman. He just focused on investing in financial services too, but he was investing Goldman's proprietary money. We thought, well, should we go start our own fund? Well, I'm like, I know how to do that. But I did it before. By the way, it's even easier now. It's three years later. I mean, it's like a real hedge fund bubble. It's 2005. It was like the perfect time to launch. You could be 28-year-old with just a little bit of experience. You spent a lot of time working. I mean, it doesn't matter how much you worked. If you worked every single hour or every single day, it's still not really enough experience. But what do you know? You're 27 years old. You're a little short-sighted and hubristic. That's part of the reason why I had a partner. We launched the fund and we went around and pitched people, hey, we're just going to invest in financial services companies. We're not going to invest in anything we don't know. By the way, it's 20 percent of the global market cap and we've been doing it for a long time. He was at Goldman and SAC and I was at this Tiger Cub, but here's our track records. I remember we got $10 million on the first day and we turned to each other, like, I don't know if we got a business here. Then some money trickled in and we got to $60 million, and then we got up to a couple of hundred million dollars, and we can go into where Cedar Hill ended up going. But when we first launched, we took a flyer. I mean, you didn't know what was going to happen, because while we had good experiences, we had good track records, we were, I think, capable of clearly running capital because we had done it before. We were young and having experiences just part of what matures you. There's only so much you can speed things up. The old software adage, you can't have a baby in three months, it doesn't matter how bad you want to have it. There's just some things that just take nine months. That's just the way things are. I guess that's why you always can look back with hindsight and understand things differently than you can when you're living it. You remember, and by the way, one of the things just to underscore here, I do think that there is a learning for young people out there. When you are looking for a job, sure it's important, the name of the firm may have some importance, but I think one of the things become really clear in just hearing your story, is you found people at these firms and a lot of it was just good luck. But you found people who, whether it was because of their belief in you or the system of the place or just the way that they operated, they gave you tremendous autonomy early and that enabled you to accelerate your compounding. I think what's important to understand, I think, is it not in the sense that you were in a rush to zip through that early formation, but more you were just learning at a pace that both the combination of hard work and the opportunities you were getting to position you to be prepared, to have a prepared mind, whether it's to start a firm or for what came next, which is if you started Cedar Hill in what, 2005 or so, probably within those first year or two, you're starting to see these cracks emerging and before most people starting to prepare for some kind of a pretty cataclysmic event with the financial system being front and center of the problem. Say a little bit more about that chapter. You all launched, you raised the money, you're getting invested. It sounds like you had an interesting combination with you in a mill of great fundamental orientation matched with a strong macro perspective orientation. But just take us through how you all started to develop a prepared mind around the events that were about to come. I did try to squeeze as much juice as I possibly could out of all these experiences. Ultimately, opportunities are what you make of them. I think it goes back to like you work really hard and you squeeze a lot of juice out of things you're going to be able to find other opportunities where you can do that. That's the compounding that ends up paying off. My path is not linear and it certainly wasn't like the exact way you would go about things. You had to figure out how can you do it. That's what I found what I could do. I'll work everybody. Nobody's going to outwork me. If you do that and you have an aptitude for it, then that makes up a lot. You don't have to be a genius. You just have a lot of talent then. Having a lot of talent is a lot more accessible than being a genius. There's not a lot of those. I certainly wouldn't call myself that. But when I went through this investing experience and you saw this bubble in 2000, to be honest with you, I had only been a long investor. I had been buying these tech stocks my whole life and they started blowing up and going down. You start learning about the financial system and seeing what was going on and understanding bubbles and reading whatever it is, Kindleberger and all kinds of other books on the South Sea Bubble and all these different bubbles. Also learning about like Kondratiev, somewhat esoteric Russian economist who talks about long wave cycles. I looked at all that stuff and I was like, oh man, this doesn't look good. This could be really bad, meaning the economy and the financial markets. As time went by, we had an enormous bubble that had been blown from basically 1995 to 2000. Enormous. In fact, there's a great book I highly recommend for anybody to try to push themselves through. It won't be easy. But it's called You Always Hurt the One You Love, How Central Banks Murdered Capitalism. The Four Horsemen of the Monetary Apocalypse. It's basically Alan Greenspan and then there's Ben Bernanke, and then there's Janet Yellen, and then there's Jay Powell. You maybe give Janet Yellen a star for also being the Treasury Secretary. Collectively, they've debased the currency tremendously. But Alan Greenspan started it in 95. He had the rational exuberance and then he backtracked because he wanted everyone to love him and just started cutting rates into the Asian crisis and then blew a giant bubble. And it started to pop and they cut interest rates to zero. And that, of course, stopped the bubble from continuing to completely clear and it allowed you to blow more bubbles. So when we launched Cedar Hill, we were in the middle of some more bubbles being blown. We officially launched in 2005, been doing fundraising in 2004. That means there was a lot of financialization that was happening. And there was a lot of technology that was changing how the financial markets worked. And that was the theme of how we really had thought about things even before that, but certainly for Cedar Hill. And so we were seeing some very cool ways in which trading technologies were changing. Before I went to Bank of America, I almost went to go work for this firm called Spearleads and Kellogg's, which was a market maker on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. And that was in 1999. And I was like, I don't know, this looks like the buggy whip maker. I don't think I'm going to go here. I miss that one. It just showed you how fast things were changing. Like everything, you're still trading in eighths, and then it was in sixteenths. People don't remember this. Then thirty seconds. Then it finally went to decimalization. Just all kinds of ways in which the market structure was changing because of technology and the way you can make loans was changing. Automated underwriting, all kinds of different ways of creating new types of products, structured products, securitizations. Of course, it existed before, but all this stuff could start to get turbocharged because of technology. And that was really cool. And one of the things that we did that was one of the most important trades and positions we put on is investing in exchanges and clearing corps around the world. That's what we started to do. And we actually would put it in our main fund, but we created a lot of point in time vehicles. So we would find something that was a very specific theme or a very specific way of investing. And we would just put the capital in for that. So one of that was buy shares and seats in a fund. And we might hold it in the main fund. And of course, we did this in other things as well. But that was an enormous trade. You're basically able to go buy exchanges around the world at generally less than the value of the building that they were in. Then they would basically electronify. They would have volumes that would go up like 10 times, revenues would go up like 10x. And instead of trading basically below book value, you'd be trading at like 10 times that 10 times growth and revenue. You just have enormous opportunities. You make 10 or 20 times your money and you're buying like seats and shares. And it could be in Brazil or in Argentina or in the US and Japan, different places. It was phenomenal. That was one really big theme that we caught. But there was always in the back of our mind, this thing is pretty unsustainable. It's going on zero interest rates and huge amounts of growth. And we always try to think about how you could use technology to change the way of understanding how companies are doing. And with financial companies, they have to file regulatory reports or securitization reports on a monthly basis. So you could actually see what was happening on a monthly basis or on a quarterly basis in a way that you wouldn't get just from reading a 10Q or 10K. And you could put this into spreadsheets. And actually, most people didn't even see this. You could get just tremendous access to data. And you could figure out what was then happening on an underlying basis. And in fact, we modeled every single mortgage in the entire United States down to the zip code. I think in 2007, before things even blew up, you had an incredible year up something. I think if our notes are right, something like 200% that year. I'm thinking back to the big short of everyone seeing that. At the end, people couldn't collect because maybe the counterparties weren't there. There was something wrong with the way that the derivatives cleared. And we can get into that maybe that leads into why you built Paxos and some other companies. But how did you have that nose to actually make money on this? You see it happening, but then you have all these tools and go long and short. You can have these point in time funds and buy seats on exchanges. But how did you end up figuring out being a moneymaker and making it work? It was the funding mechanism that was the key thing. You had to follow the money. Who is funding $600,000 mortgages to someone that only has a $600,000 house with no income or job verification? Who's funding them? That was the question. So you could be short the equity and they're playing games and squeezing you. Or you could go figure out who is funding them. And it turns out they're being funded in the securitization market. All right, great, securitization market. That's all screwed up. What are we going to do about that? Well, it turned out that there was an invention that really happened called the CDS market. And you had credit default swaps. You could actually be short securitizations. And that had not been possible before. It was actually because you could be short, it was why you also could be funding those mortgages. Because it enabled new markets to develop and for them to price things irrationally because you could create these synthetic instruments. And so it's a little bit mind boggling. It's like the chicken and the egg all came together here. And we could see it and you could be short, the most risky part of a securitization. And it was only gonna cost you like 1% a year. So I could be short the equity and it would cost me 40% a year or 25% depending on the dividend plus the borrow rates. Or I could be short the securitization cost me 1% a year. So I could put in the entire notion of value of my fund and I would only lose 1%. I was like, that's a no brainer. How about I put in a couple of times the value of my fund? How about I just create some new funds that only do this? By the way, my investors didn't like that very much. They're like, what are you doing buying CBS? This was risky. And I'm like, well, look how contained it is. I was like, well, put this in a certain vehicle. This way, so that you're protected. And then once it started to work, they're all basically said, what do you mean you didn't put more of this in the fund? How come you didn't buy more of it? No good deed goes unpunished. So anyways, that's what we recognized. And as we kept going down the rabbit hole of the securitization markets, it wasn't just in subprime. By the way, it was in subprime countries like Europe, Greece and Spain and Portugal. And it was also commercial real estate, not nearly as bad as now. Not quite as close to where the CDS markets are trading and how things are working in the commercial real estate market because of my day job now. But back then, they were pretty crazy things that happened. And you had the same type of asymmetry. And so we were able to do this in a number of different ways. When you kept trying to dig into it and realize how was the collateral working, how did the money move in the system, then you stepped back and you saw the level of debt, not just in subprime, but across the entire economy. And how we really have, even to this day, no ability to grow our economy without accumulating debt. That essentially, our only mechanism for growth is monetizing an asset bubble that the Fed has blown through debt on a global basis. And just enormous amounts of debt that we're accumulating, we're basically bankrupting our children. Unless we, of course, have mana from heaven, maybe we'll get fusion and AI, that'll save us. In which case, kicking the cam is a good idea. But anyways, you just saw this and you're like, wow, this is unbelievable what's going on. And you could see these imbalances then and even still now, are on a scale no one had ever seen any time in the history of the world. And of course, that's what you should expect because that's what fiat money does. It basically blows giant, enormous, unsustainable bubbles. That's how you end up with the South Sea bubble. That's how you ended up with all these bubbles in the past, which you had studied and were found interesting. And so we saw this and we put the positions on and some of this realization only happened over time. These are still constantly trying to learn. I mean, this is 2007, then it was 2008 and there were so many trials and tribulations moving through those years. But it was technology that made all this possible. Our ability to run money, our ability to find ideas, our ability to create research edge, to have conviction, to have the right structure in place, so that you had the right type of risk return, created some very powerful reinforcing dynamics for us. Chad, another notable aspect of Cedar Hill is the agility of the firm and the entrepreneurial aspect of building new products, new funds, specifically the development of Liberty City Ventures and actually moving from something with very few hedge funds, I think, at that time or even today are really evolved to where they're essentially capitalizing businesses, public, private, all stages, all the way to forming new companies. And of course, that's the origin story of Paxos. But what led you to build Liberty City Ventures? By the way, there's other notable companies that have been incubated out of Liberty City. What led you to think about building out that kind of dexterity of the firm? And then just the origin story of Paxos that we will need to touch on. What's probably one of the most fascinating Bitcoin origin stories and how you stumbled on that? So, a couple of elements to this. By the way, after the baby got thrown out with the bathwater, we actually created a stress mortgage fund. And we were long distress mortgages coming out of it. Now, by the way, we definitely stayed way too negative on a general basis. I think I was maybe short 35 stocks that went to zero or something through the financial crisis. We just really nailed it. But I just became too captured by the imbalances that existed and didn't understand just how powerful the printing press would be. Just how powerful QE would be. Now, I think I began to figure that out over time. But when it came across Bitcoin, it was April of 2010. It was at three cents or something. Part of the reason I was starting Liberty City Ventures was we were always investing in like kind of a life cycle. We were looking from all the way early stage businesses, private investments, buying shares and seeds of private exchanges or whatever was. So we had a lot of privates. And it's not really great to put privates in a liquid fund vehicle that has quarterly redemptions or even yearly redemptions or even two-year redemptions. We had a two-year share class. That's not a great funding thing for a business that might need capital for five or 10 years or even three years. That's why we were creating individual vehicles. The way the financial industry works is basically you're trying to match liabilities and assets. You're trying to match the duration of them. If you basically fund yourself short, like a bank, where you have immediate liquidity and you buy something that's illiquid and doesn't trade and has a 10-year time horizon, you're going to end up with a bank run. By the way, that's the banking system. Don't want to run like an institutional bank called a hedge fund where you have quarterly liquidity and 10-year investment. So you will create a Liberty City Ventures. Take those investments and put them in vehicles that fit correctly. So that way you're investing really in the whole life cycle, all the way from early stage to public, and you're not just investing in public equities, we are investing in the entire capital structure. Because of CDS and other things and be able to buy preferreds, the discounts and other things. So you're really looking at the entire capital structure across all time horizons. It's really cool. It's a lot of fun creating the right vehicles for it. On the whole, we generate really good returns in these different vehicles for our investors. There are billions of dollars of profits for our LPs. We came across Bitcoin. It was just at three cents. I essentially assumed it was going to go to zero. I know you guys have listened to a bunch of podcasts, so I'm not going to rehash things in terms of what caught our interest there. But one of the key points was, I looked at this as long the solution to money printing. And being short, the problem had been very profitable. And then, of course, it stopped being profitable. We started losing money in some ways. But what could be long the solution? And what could be long in a really transformative way? And that's what I thought Bitcoin and Blockchain represented. They're not the exact same thing, though at that time, I didn't realize that they were different because there was no such difference. It was only Bitcoin. So you could look at it and say, well, I could see how this could replatform the system and that would make Bitcoin very valuable. That's not exactly why Bitcoin is valuable today, maybe, but not certainly in the way we were conceiving it at that. The space is so nascent at the time. It makes sense why you would need to look to actually build companies that were going to exist in this new technology, this new world. But say a little bit about just how you approached that craft of coming back to your early carpenter interests in building things. I think most investors, certainly most LPs would say, okay, I've got my hedge fund people and they're really good at timing markets and putting on trades and maintaining liquidity so they can change their mind, etc. And then I've got my venture people over here. I got my growth investors. I think the LP community has really been more responsible for fragmenting what investors can do. I think there's an element of truth to that. It does seem like quite a different skill set to then go about and think about building companies out from scratch, teams, etc. Share with us the concept of Paxos. First of all, I'm curious too, just the name, anything behind the name that's important, and those early days of, we're going to build this. Ultimately, another just super fascinating development, you deciding that you're going to lead it. Because again, that's another exceptional transition from having been an investor this whole time, a very entrepreneurial one who has already built a company in Cedar Hill, but to get that much excitement and also confidence that you were going to move into full-time role with Paxos. Having had at least some small part in helping Clayborne launch, and then launching Cedar Hill, you're like, oh yeah, I know how to build financial service businesses, or at least asset management businesses, by the way, which are much different from even financial services businesses. Because you create so much leverage. Twenty-five people, you can be running billions and billions of dollars. You don't have to build all of the structures that you would normally have in running a traditional business, and your customers are very rarefied set of people. You might only have a couple of them. This is much different than if you're running out on PayPal or something. The whole society is your customer base, delivering it as a specific type of product. In the hedge fund world, your product is returns, and your customers might be pension funds or whomever it might be, but it's still only a couple of people. You're interfacing with them in a very analog way. Of course, being so young and doing it, you really don't have any other experience anyways, of how other institutions have run. You're a Goldman and you're a junior person, whatever. I know how that place is actually being run. My job is covering a couple of stocks. It's much different to run a technology company and to run an operating business. They're not even remotely the same. I wish someone would have explained it to me much more clearly in hindsight. I would have had to make so many less mistakes. I have a lot of scar tissue now. I'm sure I would be an infinitely better investor though, as a result of being so battle scarred. But any case, we started investing in these early companies because there was only Bitcoin and Ethereum or whatever, and you didn't know exactly what was going to happen. You didn't even know if this thing was going to take off at all. You thought it might, but you're still in some sense in an investor mode where you're like, well, this might work. Hey, the risk-reward is pretty good. It's three cents, it might go to zero. Maybe it goes to $10. I remember turning to my partner Emil and telling him, that $0.99, we can't buy anymore. Risk-reward is $10 and zero, so $0.99, that's the last price we're going to buy this at. That just shows you how much more wild this opportunity is than I would have ever thought. We certainly believed it could be $100,000, but what percentage probability I put on it being $100,000? I don't know, less than 1%. It's just that a really big number times even a small probability can still be a big number. Therefore, you keep holding it, but it doesn't mean that that's what you think was going to happen. Anyways, we're investing in a bunch of businesses, we incubated them inside Cedar Hill. When you got businesses of big enough size, or some of them didn't work, we spin them out. Paxos, just called Ipit at the time, we were going to just spin it out. It was being run by one of the guys who had worked for us for many years. One of the co-founders lives in Singapore, Rich Tao, growing up and spin it out. We began to keep thinking, well, how could you get this thing to be really big? How could you create infrastructure that could be widely utilized? And we realized the way to do that was to go get regulated and get a trust company in the state of New York. A really innovative regulator at the time that would allow you to be able to operate in a different way from the way the industry had been operating. And it operated in a way that was taking advantage of the technology of Blockchain. Of course, it would allow people to buy and sell Bitcoin, but that would just be one piece of one asset that you're making available through Blockchain technology that's native to the Blockchain. That's what Bitcoin is. It's one specific use of Blockchain technology. But you can put anything on a Blockchain, stocks and bonds and this and that. And you could actually use this technology to now solve the problems that we saw in the financial crisis, that exacerbated the crisis, that could allow you to be along the solution and could allow you to create a different financial system because inevitably, we got to get off this train we're on. What's your worldview on the legacy financial infrastructure where you want to be along the solution, as you said? What were the issues? Maybe it's particular to the GFC is one example, but what's the mismatch between where technology could take us versus where the system was residing? Well, there's two or three problems with the current system. One is the technology. You could argue relatedly to that is the centralization, and then there's the imbalances. So there's really three things. The technology, Cobalt mainframes from the 70s. This is no surprise. I mean, like JP Morgan, their core deposit system, I don't know, maybe have a couple of years stale, maybe it changed, runs off Fortran. I was talking to someone who runs Bank of America, and they basically said, I just started here, and you know what? The three most critical people that work at this company are like the Cobalt programmers in the middle of nowhere and are like 70 years old. We train some new people up on how to use them. One firm had just gotten off machine code. I don't know if you know machine code or assembly code. It's the ones and zeros, after you program in from the 50s. It's crazy. This is what the system is built on and running on. Maybe that's part of the reason why IBM is still around is because every financial institution is talking about a vendor trap caught in the ancient technology and they've been trying to work their ways out of it, but it's really unbelievably hard. The whole system is built on this thing. You got old technology. That old technology plus regulation means it runs like an intranet. It's the intranet from the 80s. Pre-web one is really the infrastructure. It's not running as an internet. That's what Blockchain allows you to do. You should have an intranet-based financial system, not an intranet-based financial system. I know the stuff that moves around in the financial system is very valuable and you want to be very secure, but it's just information. It's just like your email. I mean, come on, I got a stock and that's been dematerialized. Why is it taking me just as long to settle as a piece of paper, which is true until like two years ago. It still settles in T plus one. I mean, you can still move things like FedEx moves mail faster than we settle stocks that are just electronic. I mean, there's no difference from an email. That moves instantaneously. Why isn't it moving instantaneously? With all this old stuff in the background, batch processes and chains of accounts, it's crazy. It's like completely Looney Tunes. And it creates enormous amounts of risk because part of the reason when Lehman failed, no one knows where anything is. They don't know where anything is because you don't know who had this and then this and this because it's not moving in real time. It's moving in batches. Hey, we had this agreement. It's going to settle in four days, but what do you have today? It's still a way to run an economy. So we had this old technology and it's very centralized. And the centralization is a huge problem too. It's somewhere around 9% of GDP. I haven't checked in like a year or two. What the most up-to-date number is, but it was like eight and a half, nine percent is in the financial services world. That is not a sign of efficiency. That is a sign of inefficiency. You want to be able to intermediate savers in the economy and companies as cheaply as possible. We're not doing that cheaply. It's very expensive, partly because it's old technology, partly because it's an intranet, so you don't have that much innovation that's happening, or at least not happening at the speed of the rest of the economy. Let me give an example. The risk-free rate, T-bills. Why isn't the risk-free rate available to everybody in real time? In what industry should a retail person still be getting zero to two percent and the wholesale rate is five percent? Every other industry has collapsed the retail wholesale spread via basically information technology. It's criminal. And by the way, you're getting zero to two from an institution that's riskier than the T-bill. You're taking on all this risk and getting zero to two. I don't know. Is everyone saying, oh, I have such great experiences. I should be giving this institution three or five percent of my money. You know what I mean? No, nobody's saying that. And yet you still have that. That's just one example of where you have the enormous amounts of friction from being a closed system. If you had a lot of competition in a way that could get to leverage you in a way that was very easy and transparent, that wouldn't happen anymore. Centralization is creating enormous amounts of inefficiency and costs. I've heard you talk about another massive problem, and I think it's central to the Paxos mission, which is just the legacy system. It's not available globally to most people. If you think about the basic financial services that every human being should be entitled to, to be a part of the global economy that aren't, whether that's just something as basic as access to a bank account, access to dollars. And I think this is where the sort of poor technology and holding on to this antiquated system really becomes almost more of a social justice issue, because maybe you can bring us up to speed on the promise for blockchain, the promise that Paxos is attempting to become the sort of infrastructure of a new financial system. What that looks like, because you've got, I don't know the numbers, but it's just particularly overseas. You just have hundreds of millions of people, maybe it's billions, that basic services that we take for granted maybe in the United States are still not being made available. And it can be now. I think maybe 15, 20 years ago, it was legitimate to say that there were problems, but they weren't as fixable. And so maybe just share a little bit about how this new technology, and specifically how Paxos is going about being able to create at least a vision for a more accessible, democratized financial system. And maybe alongside that, because so much of this seems regulatory protections that have prevented innovation. What's the political history of Blockchain and crypto might take us to current times where we have a new administration that seems much more accommodating to this new technology? But just give us a sense for what's possible. If we maybe go in reverse, so here's this technology that comes up and it's operating on the internet and it's completely open. I mean, the whole point of the financial system is that the political economy can control the real economy through the financial system. That's how it's always worked. And it's doing it either by the Federal Reserve acting as Gaz plan, trying to set the right interest rate on an economy wide basis and failing or doing it through very specific intermediaries. And it's all being done in this internet way. This technology comes around that enables you to be safe, have safety and have security in moving information around in a highly encrypted way on the internet. And that is the game changer here. Blockchain technology is a database. I'm not trying to denigrate it by saying it's just a database. It's a distributed database. Before Blockchain, you only had databases where somebody had to control it. And Blockchain technology is a database where nobody controls it. That's like unbelievable. And so you always had someone having to control the database. That person has control and power as a result. When you can decentralize databases, you can decentralize the way in which information can move. It can operate in some ways like the physical economy does. You can have decentralized money. That's called money in your pocket, right? That's what we call gold. But whenever you put something on an electronic form, you needed to rely on databases to store it. No one can run their own storage and still access the financial system. So you're basically stock. You're stock using an intermediary. This can remove your need to rely on intermediaries and still know where your stuff is. Who owns what when? That's Blockchain. Understandably, I think there's one reaction, which is a great way for criminals to basically not have to use an intermediary who could know they're a criminal. Yes, that is true. I don't think it's a very good way compared to cash. By the way, we really like criminals using our cash. It's one of our biggest exports. We have trillions of dollars, at least a trillion dollars of physical cash that's outside the United States, and it's largely used for illicit activity. Though it's also for people who can't make accounts. That's far more anonymous than using a Blockchain, where you can actually always track everything for all of history. It has made it possible for law enforcement to go back and track them. I think as they became more familiar with this, they actually said, you know what? This is actually better than the current system, because we can just audit the chain, so it's better than the electronic system and better than the physical system. Even though it creates new risk vectors, it actually also gives us new tools, and on balance, that's actually probably better than what we were before. It didn't feel that way intuitively. And then maybe another component of this technology is, because it's open, as you're brought up, Rick, you can have anybody have access to it. And so even by the Federal Reserve's own numbers, 20 to 25% of Americans are somewhere between underbank and unbanked, and underbank just means they're not banked at a level that they're lucky to be able to pull utility. So that's in the United States. It's worse, of course, outside the US. And the main dynamic here is your smartphone penetration rate is 85% of the global population. Bank account penetration, by the way, smartphones have been around for 14 years total, or whatever it is, something like that. Bank accounts have been around for, I don't know, at least hundreds, if not a lot longer than that. There are banks all the way back in rolling times, certainly through the Middle Ages. So you've had bank accounts possible now for millennia, and the penetration rate is 65% of the population. How many people who have bank accounts have access to dollars? Not very many. So maybe somewhere around less than 10%. The US is 5%. So somewhere between 5% and 10% have access to dollars in a way that they would want. But everybody wants a dollar. Everybody wants a bank account. This is a huge unmet need. And it's not just about bank accounts, because you don't have a bank account, how do you even part of the financial system? Very hard. I mean, as a payday lending and check cashers and high remittance fees and whatever it is, how do you own anything? How do you build savings? How do you stop from expropriation, either explicitly or through inflation of what you have saved? I know someone whose family went bankrupt, lost all their savings three times in Argentina. A number of different places where you've had re-denomination. It's unbelievable how devastating that is. This technology offers a way for anybody to now enter the financial system. It allows anybody to potentially hold dollars. That's good for the US. Because central banks are selling dollars everywhere, buying gold. Retail still wants dollars. That could also be a problem for the US, but we'll set that aside. Our problem is too much debt. Finding more people to buy our debt maybe just allows us to continue the problem longer. But this is a big game-changing technology for society. How do you build then the regulated infrastructure that can allow you to solve societal-wide problems? That's how I thought about it. That's why we started Paxos. That's what our mission has always been. How do we tokenize the world's assets? How can we get the financial system to operate at the speed of the Internet? If you do that, you're going to have an entirely different productivity, an entirely different way of helping humanity. I think it creates a fundamental good. Is the right way to think about Paxos' basic services being, one, just the building out of the necessary new infrastructure needed and working with, presumably, I think the majority of your customers are financial services, payments, firms, and there are who's who. There's one component to this of actually needing to build out, like you said, a new regulated infrastructure upon which the system can run, and then that tokenization component. Getting more and more of the world's assets, starting with things like gold and US dollars, etc. onto the Blockchain so that they're available. Is that the right way to frame the business? There's a lot of different ways you can build a business. Our view had been, let's be the infrastructure layer so that other firms that have the end user can build off of us. Now it's an open system. An end user can actually use our products anyways. That's kind of the very strange thing about how the crypto Blockchain world works. We tokenize gold and a retail person can hold it directly. They don't need an intermediary. But at the same time, most people still want to use intermediaries. There's a division of labor and most people have financial relationships already. You're going to go out and acquire 7 billion people in the world as your customer or even 1 billion people or could you go out and work with all these institutions that have the 1 or 3 or 5 billion people? Plus, any of the new companies are going to come along and serve everyone else who hasn't been served. You had to pick where you can solve problems most effectively. I looked at it as saying, who's building that base layer of infrastructure so that it could be a PayPal or Venmo who are our customers or Stripe who's a customer or Interactive Brokers or Mercado Libre or new big companies, but also small companies who can come and build off our infrastructure. We're not going to compete with them, but we're going to provide them with a very reliable, regulated, secure way to concentrate on what they are good at, which is creating great user experiences. Ultimately, everyone talks about Blockchain, but it doesn't matter what Blockchain you use, just like it doesn't matter what database you use. Has anyone basically said, have you ever gone to a company that you talk to about investing and go, what database do you guys use? Are you using Kafka? No, we only invest in someone who uses MongoDB. Nobody says that, but it shouldn't matter what Blockchain you're using. The Blockchain, the whole point is that it's just a rail. There's lots of development. It's so fascinating how this is all being figured out. But if you're the average person in the world, just like you want your phone to work, when you turn it on, you're not figuring out which radio frequency your Wi-Fi is supposed to be operating on, or you're not figuring out which chip is sitting inside there. I mean, I remember we used to think about that 25 years ago. I got the new chip now. It's going to be so much better if it's 486. Now it's a 586. No one even thinks about those things anymore. It's going to be the exact same thing if you're going to get the societal wide scale on Blockchain. So are you going to provide the infrastructure that can make this possible and abstract that away and do that work? Or do you want to go create the user experience? Some people will do both. It's not either or thing. But that's where I looked at us as being able to create something that could be very valuable on a big basis and not sit here and knife fight for every single customer around the world. It's been a decade since you got the New York state regulator to give you that trust license, which I know is a huge deal, big step. And what's making me think about is just you've mentioned it's the name of our podcast too, this idea of Joys of Compounding. And you did really well with Cedar Hill. This would have been a tiny fraction of your net worth and capital to go start this adventure. But we're 10 plus years in. I'm wondering what, if you look 10 years out from now, might be those other waypoints where the compounding goes logarithmic. And you have, you mentioned PayPal, Venmo, Stripe. There's incumbents like MasterCard and Bank of America that you're working with. And it's one thing to build the rails and for their customers to technically have access to blockchain now. It's another thing to get using software parlance, DAUs, daily active users, monthly active users, who are actually having the blockchain be part of their lives. Now, you've built the infrastructure. You don't have to force it. What are those next driving factors now that you've spent so much time building these rails that could really make this day? If you look at Bitcoin as an example, that's something that's compounded unbelievably. Highly volatile, but compounded unbelievably. So there's an example of these new things come along and they really just take on a life of their own. I think putting all this hard work into Paxos, which we've done, I think we have been moderately successful. I think of being very successful as if you build like $100 billion business. If you build $100 billion business, you're like a one basis point company, more or less. That's how many companies there are in the world versus how many had $100 billion, more or less. To me, that'd be very successful. I know that's like probably like a top 10 tennis player in the world. Obviously, not a lot of them. There's only 10. Can you get to being a top 10 tennis player? I think it's great. The last valuation was $2.4 billion. We built a very impactful business. We're not creating societal wide impact yet, but this technology isn't creating societal wide impact yet. That brings us to this present moment where basically came out of the prior administration. The industry was in a deep freezer. They were actively trying to kill the businesses, including ours, debanking, you name it. Just shocking things that happened to us and to many others. The industry didn't do itself any favors. We had fraudsters and grifters, etc. But that's not the same thing as this was a legal industry. People do bad things in lots of industries. It's a legal industry, but there's a weaponization of justice against us and all of us. That was a really hard operating time. To be honest, it was quite depressing even as an American to watch it because it was so unlawful in so many different ways. Now, what we have in this new administration, by the way, Trump 1.0 wasn't all that great for crypto either, but it was so nascent that I would say they didn't really care but were probably negative. The Biden administration cared a lot and they were very negative. Now, you have basically Big Bang 2.0. Big Bang 1.0 was financial deregulation in the 80s. This is something akin to that. One of the thought experiments I had my team go through was, the president has his own token, so does the First Lady. What financial institution cannot be in crypto now? They're going to put in all the right people and all these regulatory places, and it's not just crypto, it's Blockchain. There were so many rules that were restricting things and the weight of history and other instances. It's almost hard to imagine how much things have shifted, and now what the opportunity is, because you're driving with your foot on the gas and the brake, where they really tried to kill crypto and Blockchain. You could kill it in certain ways, any regulated pathway, including ours, had a lot of things shut down, whatever. But crypto kept growing outside of the regulated world. Developers, et cetera, there was growth that was happening, but it was on the fringes. Now that heavy weight has gone and can now be pushed into the traditional system in a way that we haven't seen. We have no concept of what the next four years could look like, or then however long this goes for. It's going to be unbelievable because you have held back the tide of innovation so long in the financial sector. Cobalt mainframes going back to... Fortran, Cobalt mainframes, machine code, WTF. This is nuts. And now everyone can be involved in it. Do you think that point of view at least is forming among the new administration that Blockchain crypto isn't just something that should grow and should become more useful, but that it actually could consume the legacy system and replace it? Absolutely. And more than that, I think they look at it as a national security issue to make sure just like AI, and that's why David Sachs is the head of not just AI, but crypto, as a national security issue. By the way, I think it is too. Everybody wants dollars. Why would we keep dealing with dollars like it's the post office? Takes two to three days to move your money around in the world, best case scenario. Why isn't it moving instantaneously? People want dollars. You don't give it to them. They're going to go get it somewhere else. You want to be the Rust Belt of financial services? Well, let's keep running on Cobalt mainframes because that's basically like the same steel mills in Cleveland right now. Or do you want to offer new products that solve the problems that people have today? You have to constantly be innovating because the problem someone has today is the new thing based on the last thing you solved. You think you're going to keep solving the problem the old way, the world's going to pass you by. Or you can try and put as much regulation in place to say, that's the only way you can solve a problem. That ends up in collapse. The Roman Empire collapses or whatever ends up collapsing. That's why everything is about decentralization and centralization. Decentralization and centralization, because sometimes decentralizing solves your problems and sometimes centralizing does. Unbundling and bundling. I think this administration gets it. You need decentralization. You need crypto. You need Blockchain in order to secure America's primacy in financial markets and in innovation and in order for us to be able to continue to grow. Who needs to lead the way? And I'm just thinking of a specific example. If everyone opens their PayPal app, as we were prepping for this time with you, knowing that you power a way for folks to use stable coins on there, it's actually extremely easy to find right in the PayPal app, but I never used it. Again, back to this question of who needs to be prodded for the adoption to be more widespread. I think about it in the same way as AI. Is it going to be the situation where essentially we're all using AI and it's improving the software we're currently using or our interaction with various businesses and other humans, or is there something that people need to proactively do to enter into this Blockchain phase to become part of the solution? You always have to start with the customer. What problem are you solving for the customer? Because if you're not solving a problem, it doesn't matter if you have a better solution. No one cares. It's really, I think, always that simple. And that's why I was talking about dollars and stablecoins. As one example, everyone wants dollars, they want to be 24-7, they want to be instantaneous, they want to be free, and they want to be programmable. Some people want all of those things, some people want some of those things, but everybody wants at least one of those things. And stablecoins allow that to happen. Now, you couldn't offer that for all kinds of different reasons in the past. You're not allowed to have stablecoins, how is it accounted for, blah, blah, blah, all these different things. That goes away. How fast are dollars going to migrate out of the Blockchain? The only thing that's holding it back is the regulation, not the need or the solution. That's true for stablecoins. Now, you go to crypto, everyone's like, I don't get crypto. By the way, I don't get crypto half the time. I only spend time thinking about crypto. I don't get this. One of these mean coins and this thing and that thing, and I really go, oh man, this looks like a lot of bubbles. I've seen a lot of bubbles. A lot of things that go to zero. Why isn't this stuff going to zero? I think you have to think about it differently. In a networked economy, you need tools that create network organization and network economics. That's what crypto is providing. It doesn't mean a lot of this stuff isn't pets.com and Webvan and whatever, and it's all going to go to zero. But you have to organize yourself differently. An example would be Twitter. Imagine if you could be a first user on Twitter and they gave you a token for you putting your content on there. And now other people come on and you got other people to use it and you have the tokens and they get the tokens. And then it gets to something that everyone is using. That token became a lot of value. You got some as the person who actually made it capable for Twitter to succeed. Twitter was monetizing you. You didn't get anything for that aside from utility, I guess, which is something. Now you could actually get value for it. And in a networked economy, in a network world, running on the Internet, you need an organizational mechanism. And that's what tokens can make available. It's going to have to be simplified. Some of the stuff is crazy. You can't understand it all. It's not there yet, but it is a fundamentally different approach to how you create organizational activity. In the same way that creating a C Corp was a fundamentally different way from having an unlimited partnership. You had a different economy where you had unlimited liability partnerships. Then you had limited liability partnerships, and you have C Corps. You know, that got created in like 1850 or 1860 where you started C Corps with the railroad. You had railroads, needed huge amounts of capital, you started C Corp. You have networks that need huge amounts of people to come on, use a token. Crypto has a fundamental need that it's solving. How do you create an organizational principle on an economic and social basis for people to come in and work together? And I think that gets lost too because there's a lot of nutty stuff going on. Don't get me wrong. What are some of the tangible things you expect to see over the next, say, couple of years that will be needle moving in terms of Blockchain adoption? I think the first thing is you're going to get to a billion wallets or multiple billions of wallets. We're at low 100 million or whatever. It's hard to get it exactly right, but let's just say that's what it is. So that's called somewhere around 10X to 100X growth. In the number of wallets that you'll see. And no one will know that it's a wallet that is Web 3. Because you have a dollar move on a Blockchain, a Stablecoin, it's just a dollar moving. It's just like, oh man, that ACH dollar, how many people? I mean, sometimes you have to know that, but not really. So why your dollar that's moving or an ACH dollar or some other real-time system is moving on the FedNow system in the background or went to the Fed clearinghouse or you don't really know that stuff all that much. And to the extent you do, it's not because you want to. You're going to have billions of wallets moving around stablecoin dollars, moving dollars in real-time. I think that's absolutely going to be happening and that's going to completely transform the global economy. Because now you have AI coming on and you're going to have AI agents being able to do things and you have digital money that's moving in real-time, that is completely settleable. It's not like these leads and lags and whatever. It's a huge change. I think that's easy to see. There's a lot of hard things to see that are a derivative of that as well. What does it mean to intermediate savers and how does that work? What is the function of the banking system where you have this payment instrument that is also in some sense a savings instrument, being able to move around like this? What things get unbundled and bundled in the financial industry? What is capital formation look like in a token-based economy? More and more token-based? What happens when you have real-time movement of securities and collateral? I mean, I can think of an answer to a bunch of those things, but not all of them, because you're really starting to operate on the S curve. And you're just so hard to extrapolate when you're on the S curve because it's never a straight line, even when it's going down. There's no straight line on the S curve. And we're in an S curve here. It's the S curve for the technology and for the adoption and for the ways in which those will then come together to create entirely new paths forward. And so any prognostication starts to become very low confidence interval because the tails are so wide and the possibilities are so big. And I think that would be the other thing to take away is like, however you think you're going to extrapolate this, that's not going to be what you think. It's interesting to think about just how in this particular industry and financial services, how the global consumer who generally is has been shown to be very demanding in terms of progress. It's like we've been nestetized and just have all just been accustomed to not seeing the level of progress in this aspect of our daily lives that we otherwise could. I think that's totally true. It's like in the US here, generally like us three or whoever, you're kind of wearing like a poorly fitting shoe, but you got a shoe on. You go outside the US., no one has got a shoe. Basically going, man, I got a big problem. I don't even have a shoe. I want a shoe. Here we're like, oh man, the shoe, this doesn't feel good. You take it off and you put on one that fits, you're like, oh, that's so much better. You didn't really know how bad it was. Outside, there's a lot of people, they're like, man, I just want any kind of shoe. Just the amount of friction that can come out of the system, the amount of things that can be built, rebuilt, big, better, faster, cheaper. I guess maybe just as a closing question, by the way, I think we're seeing the carpenter and you come back really with your ambitions to really just essentially rebuild the financial infrastructure that's all we've known for all of our collective lives. I think there's maybe three buckets of entities. One is the consumer, another is companies, and then the final one is maybe investors. But what's your advice for how there's so much out there right now on AI and entry points for folks to tinker around with ChatGBT or random apps to introduce AI into your life. But just maybe give your perspective on for the consumer and for companies and for investors, how do they lean in to this technology and make it more relevant and make it work for them more and more based on what's possible? I always think about what is your problem that you're trying to solve for? Is it like, I'm trying to solve for returns. Okay, well, then that's a certain lens. So my view is you got to just jump in and start getting involved. I mean, the Web3 world is confusing as hell. Take a small amount, get somebody involved and learn. So you're trying to solve for returns. That's what this is doing. Now, if you're trying to think about, I need to find how new technology is going to change the way people work. I think the answer is almost still the same. Because what DeFi and we didn't spend any time talking about that is showing you is a way in which you create global pools of capital available to anybody on equal terms. Rick Berman has a Bitcoin or a fraction of a Bitcoin, someone in Indonesia, fraction of a Bitcoin, they want to go to a lending pool, they get the exact same terms, the exact same rate, no matter who you are, no matter where you are. That's unbelievable. It doesn't exist now. You bring these assets and you can borrow. You don't even have to know anything else. You're going to create global pools of capital that are moving in real time, unlike anything we've even seen. Like we talk about the FX markets and they're kind of like that or the repo market. People want to be able to figure out what are the businesses that are going to take advantage of that? You're an investor, you might want to generate returns just by holding assets, but you might want to generate returns because you're trying to figure out where the new ideas are going to come from. I still think you got to get involved and you got to dig in and see what's happening. If you're a consumer, that's a different thing altogether. If you're a consumer, you're like, I want to send some money to my family in Mexico. You'd be like, well, hey, you just download this Web 3 wallet and you can send the money to them immediately. You'd see companies that are going to solve these consumer problems. By the way, they're growing like crazy once solving those types of problems. Their businesses too, they're taking advantage of it. I mean, that's why we spend a lot of time talking about stablecoins, a little less about crypto, but crypto, stablecoins, all these things, uses of this technology in ways that we just haven't really thought about and understood. Partly because we're locked in the freezer, and so it's happening on the fringes. Basically, you're immediately out of the freezer, into the oven almost, and have your head spinning more than even understanding. You keep thinking, well, it's going to be like where it just was, except go faster. It's not going to be like that. It's going to be faster for sure, but in a different way than we could imagine. It's super fun to just hear you riff on these things that, yeah, have such potential to have tremendous impact, and yet it's still very much frontier, white space, and we're looking forward to seeing all the ways that you're going to be building through these exciting times. You're still an animal. The gorilla, he needs his eight sleep. We get him a couple extra hours a day. I know, that's what I was saying. If you can get me a couple extra hours because I'm sleeping better, that'd be great. Two times seven, that's 14. There's a whole nother working day. I'm on it, but we do, Chad, just so appreciate you, appreciate your friendship. Thanks for the education, and honestly throughout my last 20, 25 years just episodically being there for me, and with great insights, and today as well for sharing your time so generously. We're rooting for you, we're rooting for Paxos, and just really appreciate the mark you're putting on the world. Thanks for giving me the opportunity. Thanks, Chad.