Welcome to The Forum from the BBC World Service. I am Iszi Lawrence. Some people have it. Men and women. The young and the not-so-young. People from all over the globe. Some people have a quality that's hard to define yet easy to see. A quality we now call charisma. At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom. A moment comes which comes but rarely in history, when we step out from the old to the new, when an age ends, and when the soul of a nation, long suppressed, finds utterance. I have a dream that one day, this nation will rise up, live out the true meaning of its creed. We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal. The terrorists thought that they would change my aims and stop my ambitions, but nothing changed in my life except this. Weakness, fear, and hopelessness died. Strength, power, and courage was born. Indian Prime Minister Nehru, civil rights leader Martin Luther King, and education campaigner Malala Yousafzai are well known for delivering charismatic speeches. But the gift of charisma is not the exclusive property of leaders and celebrities. You'll know when you are in the presence of a charismatic person. Here is how Forum listener Dudu from Botswana put it. In the presence of a charismatic leader or somebody charismatic, I feel warmth. I feel like I'm heard. I feel like I'm seen. I'm understood. And in most of the cases, there is a sense of joy and happiness. I feel relaxed and more myself in the presence of somebody charismatic. So it's not usually difficult to recognize charisma, but understanding how it works can be harder. You may have heard that the Oxford University Press Word of the Year was RIS in 2023. But charisma is much more than just appealing to potential lovers. Politics is an area where charisma is said to give some people a competitive edge. But there are also plenty of others who got to the top without having much charisma at all. The former German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, is often cited as an example. But if you have lots of charisma, what sort of advantage does it give you? John, you've worked for many years on quantifying charisma, and we'll get to the details of your research later in the programme. But in a broad sense, what does charisma give an aspiring politician or business leader? Well, we've done lots of research on this topic, going from US presidents to US governors to looking at which TED Talks go viral. We even set up a temporary firm where we randomized workers to be exposed to motivational speech, which was either charismatic or not, and where we compared the effect of charisma to high-level economic bonuses. So in general, what advantages charisma gives is that it makes the person being able to motivate others energize them, make them feel like they can contribute to something bigger. It gives people a collective sense of identity, makes them feel good to help the leader refile or concretize a mission. And we can break it down to very specific techniques that are rooted in communication. That's John Antonakis, Professor of Organizational Behavior in the Faculty of Business and Economics in the University of Lausanne in Switzerland. John is also a co-author of The Charismometer that predicts US presidential elections, among other things. Julia, charming individuals usually go far, but I'm not clear whether charm and charisma are the same thing. Oh, they are not the same. Charm is built on proximity, so the charming people wants to communicate that he is just like you. You can have beer with him. That's very different from charisma, which is built on distance, you know, just think about the speeches that you have heard in this program, these beautiful, powerful speeches. They are at a distance from you. There is a godlike character, and you access charismatic speeches in a limited set of media. By charm, we have all over social media, we receive a ton of videos, texts that appear as charming, and we can feel like we are in the same space with the politician. We feel like we are in the kitchen of Kamala Harris. That's what charm is. That's my second guest, Julia Sonnevend, Associate Professor of Sociology and Communications at The New School for Social Research in New York. Julia is the author of Charm, How Magnetic Personalities Shape Global Politics. And this is what World Service listener Sharpa from Bangladesh thinks about the difference between charisma and charm. I couldn't forget what the comedian Jimmy Carr had said in one of his interviews, that charisma is something that brings you to a person, but charm is something that that person brings to you. That really struck me as a very interesting observation, and I've applied it to my own life. And it's just so true that the charismatic people that I know, they are charismatic for some sort of mysterious reason. It's something that they possess. And you don't necessarily have to like them, or you don't necessarily have to think that they will like you. But they just have that it factor that attention is always on them, whether they work for it or they don't work for it, whether they use it for good or they use it for bad. No value judgments at all, but it's just a, you know, trait that they are born with. Charm, on the other hand, is a lot less powerful in kinds of ways, because you can be very charming, but to really get people to do something, you need to have charisma. Charming people are very sweet, and they're witty and friendly and approachable, and they have very good manners. These are people that we meet every day, and I think charming people are much more common than charismatic people, so it's a little bit more rare to be charismatic. Charismatic individuals probably existed since the dawn of humanity, but the phenomenon hasn't had its modern name until the end of the 19th century. Before that, people spoke instead of magnetic personalities, didn't they, Jeremy? That's right. There was a hypnotist from Germany by the name of Franz Anton Mesmer, who believed that what he called personal magnetism was a kind of liquid or some sort of ether that existed in space and time that people could absorb into their bodies and become magnetic personalities. And this led to all sorts of very strange and interesting ideas that circulated at least in the United States in the late 1900s. There are records of people arguing that charismatic people can make plants grow more effectively or are better at enticing fish to bite a fishing line when they are fishing for them or that charisma can stop a watch on your wrist or that charisma makes you a better baseball player, not a more popular one, but actually better at attracting the ball to your bat. And these are all based on these theories of magnetism and mesmerism. That's my third guest, Jeremy C. Young, historian of political culture and social movements, author of The Age of Charisma, Leaders, Followers, and Emotions in American Society. The German sociologist Max Weber established the modern usage of the word charisma at around the time of the First World War. Before that, the word was used in a slightly different way, in connection with spiritual matters, wasn't it Jeremy? That's right. Weber discovered the word in a book by the church historian, Rudolf Søm, who used it to describe a sort of connection with the spiritual world, being charismatic, meant to be extra spiritual, extra holy. And Weber changed that meaning. He changed it to mean instead a sort of secular relationship that a leader has with a follower. More specifically, the quality that describes why a leader draws a stronger emotional connection with a follower than one would expect based on their natural affinity with one another. What is the special sauce that makes someone an effective leader or attracts followers to them? That, Weber said, is charisma. To this day, some people believe that charisma is simply a gift from God, or to use a more modern term, an innate trait. But others say it's something more prosaic. Isn't it, Julia? So that's the one million dollar question. We sociologists tend to think that it's the audience who decides. Even Weber said that. It's the audience. It's in the eye of the beholder. But I think that's nonsense, actually. I mean, some people have it, right? I mean, think about Bill Clinton. There is no profile or biography of Clinton that doesn't say, well, you go into the room with him, you might not like him, and then he sort of sucks you in like a vacuum cleaner. He makes you feel like you are the one and only in the world. And then he moves on and he does the same to the next person. And he does that not because he went through hundreds of hours of media training. No, he just had it. So that's where it becomes complicated. And I say this at the expense of being murdered by fellow sociologists, but there is something to the innate character of charismatic and charming people. And researchers don't like that because we like measuring things and quantifying things, and defining things, and the best things in life. If you think about hope, love, courage, these are all qualities that are hard to define, yet they define us. I mean, John, what would you say to this notion? I suppose that charisma is simply the ability just to be in the moment, to focus well, and just be present. Well, that's not scientific. It's very hard to quantify, measure, and manipulate as you would in a field experiment. So, I just want to make one thing clear, though, about Weber. So, Weber did borrow the term from Zombe. That's true. The word charisma in Greek, charisma means a gift of grace. And just for the historical record, there are traces and variants of the term in Greek mythology, especially the chariters, so the goddess Charis. That referred to charm, excitement, beauty, pleasure, as well as allurement. We wrote this, you know, historical review of what charisma is. So, I'm not saying this because I have a Greek name and Greek roots, but you know, that's the oldest trace of the term we found. Anyway, I do agree with what Julia said with respect to it being an innate quality. So, we just wrote a paper which we titled Charisma is a Costly Signal. And the signal is designed to communicate. And where does this come from? So, some people are more able to learn from experience, link conditions to actions, and emulate what are very effective and persuasive speakers, in other words, charismatic speakers. So, this component is innate because just like IQ is genetically heritable, but can also improve with education, so can charisma. So, we have shown a very strong correlation with general intelligence. We show no correlation with any of the big five or big six personality traits. So, neuroticism, agreeableness, extraversion, conscientiousness, openness, and honesty. And interestingly, we published the first paper in 2011, where we showed that we could actually train individuals, now these were managers at Swisscom, so they were electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, lawyers, finance people. They were high level people who were quite smart, but we did a randomized field experiment, where we trained half of the managers to enact these charismatic techniques. So, this is a learned skill, and they worked very proximally with their subordinates, and we found three months later in polling them and measuring how people looked at them, that they improved their charisma. We're doing other field experiments now, where we showed the turnover rate, in other words, how many staff, a manager, loses, is much less when people have received charismatic leadership training versus a placebo training. Julia? I think that's not in contradiction. Some people have it, but you can also work on it if you don't have it, or if you want to improve it, that, you know, can be in tandem. Like singing? Yep. Yeah, one thing I might add is that Webber did not define it. He talked about it in the old sociological literature, I think, with which Julia has a bone to pick, is that they called it a mysterious quality, only accessible to a rare few, a god-like mystical ability and alchemic quality. You know, that's just simply hocus pocus. It's not science. You can't measure it, you can't define it, and you can't do any experiments around it. So, you know, it is something that can be measured, and we can manipulate it, and we can observe it. Manipulating meaning that we can show more or less of it, like a dosage in a vaccine, and then we can look at the implications of, you know, upping the dosage, what happens to people's perceptions of the person. Well, there were hundreds of responses to our call out about charisma on Facebook, but there was little consensus as to what makes a person charismatic. Here are some of the many listener suggestions. Honesty Kindness Wisdom Humility Bravery Unflappability Pleasing Voice Quick Wit Confidence Self-Awareness Nice Smile Apparently, charismatic people also have an air of contentment in themselves. They possess great wealth, a sense of humour, fabulous oratory skills, the ability to read and respond well to the crowd. They're often flamboyant, but likeable, cheerful, energetic, passionate, knowledgeable, cunning, and clever. I could go on, but I think it's clear that charisma means different things to different people. But whatever qualities you think charismatic people have, researchers in psychology and sociology have documented that a crucial element of charisma is a two-way interaction between people, a sort of seductive dance between the person exuding charisma and the person or persons on the receiving end. How does that work, Julia? So what I say in my book, that charm oscillates between seduction and deception. So when you fuse with the performer, when you feel like one with him, it's the best sense of seduction, right? And when it falls apart, as my students would say, when it becomes cringe, then it moves into the direction of deception. But yes, it is an interaction, and that's why it is so complicated to do it on social media. You don't see the other person. You have the illusion of responding back or interacting. But more and more politicians have to communicate that charm and charisma in the media. Most of the times you don't meet the politician in person. Very few cases we can mention when you shake hands. So what you see is a mediated version. It's the personality performed for you in a fundamentally fake environment. And what are you looking for in that fundamentally fake environment called the media? You look for authenticity, for charm, for charisma. And that's the ultimate paradox that we are seeing in contemporary politics. Yeah, nobody wants to see an authentic tightrope walker, do they? That would be not a great show. Exactly. And this is how Forum listener Chris from the United States describes the dynamics of a charismatic encounter. It very much is a dance. That's the best way I would describe it myself. It's really a give and take, and you want to really do your best to maintain it. It's very easy to be overwhelmed in certain situations. And that's the biggest issue with charismatic people sometimes, is they can just be so big, so present, so in the moment, and even demanding to the point where it's just overwhelming. And you have to be able, as someone's interacting with them, especially as a listener, someone on the receiving end, be able to take that all in and manage it. And then in turn, give that back to them. You need to show them that you're actively listening, that you're responding to them, their enthusiasm. And if unfortunately, if you're not, that can cause things to sour quickly, to the point where you're just going to disengage from that person. And this disengagement can happen, this bond can easily be broken, can't it John? Yes, it can. I think at this point, it's probably important to disassociate signalling charisma from the charismatic effect occurring. So for example, we might all agree that Clinton is charismatic, but go to Oklahoma where Trump in the last three elections won every single county, and they'll see Clinton as a clown. You know, go to some rural parts in the US and ask if Trump's charismatic. They'll say, he's super charismatic. Certainly not in New York. So what's really critical to understand is that signalling charisma is one thing, and that an objective deep neural network like my charismatic can capture, but whether the effect happens depends on whether you share values with the audience that you're trying to influence. So a charismatic leader can ironically be loved or loathed depending on the point of view that you have. So in that sense, Weber was partially correct in that it is in the eye of the beholder, but still you can jack up or down the signal, but it depends on the values. Jeremy, are there examples from history of public figures who were thought of as charismatic only to lose that cachet in a spectacular way? Absolutely. You know, in the 19th century, there was a belief in the United States that charisma was represented by a particular style of public speaking that was characterized by very high highs and low lows that had a sort of sing-song quality to it, and where the public speaker, in an era before amplification, electronic amplification, was able to project their voice in the way that an opera singer does by dropping their larynx and lengthening their vocal cords. You know, that was a very popular speaking style. You can read about the emotional impact that it had on listeners in the 19th century. But when electronic amplification appeared and people began to experience these speakers, not in person on a stage but on a radio, things changed very quickly. There's a famous study from 1930 where a young sociologist named Hadley Cantrill went to a religious revival led by the aging revivalist Billy Sunday, who had been a very successful revival minister for decades. And he attended this revival in a theater where Sunday had an audience, a live audience in front of him and then an audience in the basement, an overflow audience that was listening to him via radio. And Cantrill went up and down the stairs and listened to the audience reaction to the same performance by Sunday. And it was night and day. The audience experiencing him in person was moved to tears. There were conversions. When they passed the hat, there were all these donations. And downstairs in the basement, people were indifferent. Wow. So John, your Charismometer is designed to measure charisma. How exactly does it do this? Well, we measure charisma in terms of what the person says. And there are three essential components. One is framing. And framing has to do with triggering symbolic meanings. And that's done a lot through storytelling, metaphor, contrasting one's position against the other, posing puzzles and intrigues, and then showing how they can be solved. The second component is the substance. You know, why are we doing it? What's the raison d'être? And that's got to do with the values that one promulgates and defends, and then what sentiments are put into the core vision that the leader is trying to project. What are the strategic goals? And then signaling confidence that they can achieve them. So that's the written component, it's the words and combinations of prose that's used. And then there's also the delivery. Delivery's got to do with the voice, nonverbal gesturing and emotions that are signaled. Now I must be very clear on one point that the cake is framing and substance. The delivery is the icing and the cherry on the top. You know, you cannot convince an audience simply, you know, by blowing hot air, that you're going to move them. If what one is saying doesn't make any sense or you fundamentally disagree with, or it's just utter rubbish, you know, gesticulating is not going to do it. And we also know from experiments that we've done that just reading the text of a charismatic speech can move individuals. We've got the data, we've got incentivized experiments where we show that. Hearing it has a very similar effect, and then watching the video with the gesticulations has a slightly stronger effect, but still charisma does work through the written word. I mean, you know, just think of times you've read a book that brought one to tears. I mean, it happens to me or reading a poem or what have you. It's the words that trigger the images that stoke the emotions. And that's how we measure it. We stick speeches in deep neural networks and we measure what the people say. What the people say correlates also quite strongly with the emotional component. But if you don't show the gesturing, it's not detrimental. That's really interesting because, you know, I've spoken in front of kids and I'd say how you say it matters way more than what you say. But maybe we can have an argument because I imagine that charismatic speakers were able to sway crowds of followers as far back as ancient Mesopotamia or ancient Greece and many other societies at the dawn of history. But more recently, in the 19th century, a whole host of charismatic orators emerged in the United States, people who hoped that their impassioned words would change their society. We'll hear more about them in the second part of this forum from the BBC World Service in a couple of minutes. Welcome back to the forum from the BBC World Service. I am Iszi Lawrence and today I'm talking about charisma with three leading researchers in the field, John Antonakis, Julia Sonnevend and Jeremy Young. We've also had lots of thoughts about charisma from World Service listeners. We've already touched upon the long-standing debate about whether you have to be born charismatic or whether it's something anyone can learn. Venita from Barbados thinks that the deciding factor may actually be the social surroundings in which a future leader grows up. I think if you are born with people around you that respond to you, you know, like you're not isolated from people and you know what makes other people like you, but I think more important you have to have something to say. You have to have a vision. You have to be confident. So I think if those are innate, yes, but I think a lot of it can be learned too. I mean, you know, there are so many courses and stuff that teach people, you know, the marketing courses, to teach you how to bring people in and to like you and to get your points across and stuff like that. But I think there are some naturally born leaders. I really do think so. You just see them from the time they're young. But I think having people around responding to you leads you into knowing what you do and say hits the right note, you know? Listener Zahra in Pakistan remembered the late political leader, Benazir Bhutto, and the way she engaged with her audiences. I heard Benazir and she had personal magnetism to connect with people. She has that emotional intelligence that charismatic individuals need to often adapt at reading the emotional states of others. She knows how to push forward with an idea or when to hold back. For example, navigating urban elites in Islamabad while engaging with grassroots movements in rural Punjab requires a unique balance. So I think that allowed her to inspire millions and navigate complex environments. Going further back in history, your research, Jeremy, focuses on the charismatic orators who proliferated in the second half of the 19th century, especially in the United States. Why were they so influential? In the early 19th century, there was a medical doctor named James Rush, who lived in Philadelphia, and he developed a system of public speaking in a book called The Philosophy of the Human Voice. And he got a lot of the ideas for that book from going to the theater. So a lot of it includes the sort of common wisdom of great actors, stage actors in the early 19th century. He tried out a lot of the ideas muttering in his room at night. There's a record in his book of practicing on his horse and seeing whether the speaking style he was working on would be charismatic to his horse. And he wrote this book and it quickly turned into a curriculum that began to appear in what were called elocution courses all across the country. And over the middle and late 19th century, students who read and learned James Rush's speaking style went on to become prominent ministers, prominent politicians, prominent social movement leaders. And so there were suddenly a very large number of public speakers who had studied this style and became very popular with large audiences around the country. So who were the people listening to these people? Really Americans of all walks of life were listening. You know, Billy Sunday's revivals drew in 10 million Americans from all parts of the country, all backgrounds, walk into the tent, listen to him speak. Politicians and ministers and social movement leaders drew hundreds of thousands of audience members, and they really were able to attract mass audiences in a way that really had not been possible in American history or even viewed as desirable in American history prior to this. Previous generations of Americans had felt that charismatic speaking or oratory was akin to demagoguery, that it was dangerous and imperiled the Republican and smacked of King George. And it was only in this period when Americans began to see this as a sort of fundamental part of what democracy meant. You had to be able to connect emotionally with the people who were leading your society. Changing technology played a part as well, didn't it? Right. The Industrial Revolution was a key component of this because it allowed these speakers to travel all around the country via train very quickly and speak to audiences all over the country in a way that wouldn't have been possible. And in addition to interconnecting people around the country, it also resulted in a rapid increase of population. So suddenly there were more people who felt more remote from their leaders, even as they also felt closer to them because they could travel to see them. And that created the conditions where Charismatic Oratory thrived. In 1896, a speech brimming with charisma earned one little-known orator not just a 20-minute standing ovation but also a US presidential nomination. His name was William Jennings Bryan and his speech became known as the Cross of Gold. Here is a short extract. The man who is employed for wages is as much a businessman as his employer. The attorney in a country town is as much a businessman as the corporation council in a great metropolis. The merchant at the crossroad store is as much a businessman as the merchant of New York. The farmer who goes forth in the morning and toils all day begins in the spring and toils all summer and by the application of brain and muscle to the natural resources of this country creates wealth, is as much a businessman as the man who goes upon the board of trade and bets upon the price of grain. The miners who go one thousand feet into the earth or climb two thousand feet upon the cliffs and bring forth from their hiding places the precious metals to be poured in the channels of trade are as much businessmen as the few financial magnates who in a back room corner the money of the world. There were no microphones present at the 1896 Democratic Party Convention, but there were hundreds of people listening to William Bryan and applauding him. John, as well as analyzing US presidential candidate speeches from later years, you have put the Cross of Gold speech through your Charismometer. What did you find? Well, it's a pretty good speech. I wouldn't say it's exceptional. At the end, he says, You shall not press down upon the brow of labour, this crown of thorns. You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold. He did use a lot of metaphor in that speech, and metaphor is quite important. Now, when we put his speech through the Charismometer, we look at how many charismatic signals there are per sentence, and then we norm it at 15 words per sentence. If you speak shorter sentences, you get a higher score. If you speak long sentences, a lower score, it's very, very hard to follow long sentences. So his speech clocks in at about 44 percent charisma. Just to give you an idea, Trump, we clocked in at about 53 percent. Harris was in the mid 40s as well, a little bit higher than that. So it's not exceptional. It's pretty good. The average US pretender to the Oval Office, the challenger or the loser, Republican or Democrat, has an average score of around 30 percent. So it is pretty good, but it's not charisma that is always going to decide whether someone wins the US presidency. There are other factors at stake, and to quote from Bill Clinton's campaign, it's the economy is stupid. However, charisma matters too. Julia, the language politicians use today might be different, but what about the underlying message? I think the underlying message is pretty similar, saying that as a politician I'm not that different, and as an audience there is more similarity among you than you would imagine. But just think about a recent visit by presidential candidate Trump to a barber shop in the Bronx, and he was talking to overworked and underpaid workers there, and he said, you guys are the same as me. And I was wondering based on what metric, but it's the same idea emphasizing the similarities and not the differences. Despite his oratory skills, William Bryan lost the presidential race to a candidate who was by all accounts less charismatic and not just once but twice. Nevertheless, charismatic speakers from the end of the 19th century did influence their society. In what way, Jeremy? In my research, I really identified whether a candidate was charismatic, not by the style of speaking they used or the words they used, but by the way their audience responded to them. You can go into the letters that people wrote to Bryan and others during these campaigns and really see the language that they used to talk to their heroes, to their leaders. Other candidates receive mail that says, and I thought what you said was very interesting. I agreed with it. I'm happy to vote for you. William Jennings Bryan received mail referring to him as Moses or Jesus Christ, or with people saying that they were naming their children after him. I found a lock of hair from a child born in 1896 in a letter enclosed to Bryan named after him. There was a famous set of triplets named William Jennings and Bryan after him as well. And that idea that in order to be a successful democratic leader, you have to be emotionally available to your followers. You have to be connected to them in some way beyond just the transactional business of having the job. That has become a permanent fixture of American society. And it really is down to this moment in the late 19th and early 20th centuries when politicians like Bryan forged those kind of emotional connections really for the first time and then made them a durable part of what it means to be an American in the democracy. People often ask whether charisma is a good thing or not. And quite a few World Service listeners have misgivings about it. Betsy and Simon, for instance. My father always said that charisma is the most dangerous power a human can have, as it can be used to accumulate power, and power corrupts both those who have it and those around that person. Charisma can lead to atrophy of other character traits. Charisma is a confidence trick really, sometimes fairly benign, sometimes less so. The charismatic people I've known have mainly been good at noticing and targeting susceptible people. If they get a positive response, they play to it. If they don't, they move on. It's a performance. Listener Carol in Australia works as a domestic violence educator, and says that an encounter with a charismatic individual may not always turn out well. Unfortunately, charisma does have the shadow side, like all things in life, there's light and there's dark, and it's well known that in cult dynamics, that the cult leaders are usually very charismatic. They have the capacity to mirror back values. So, for example, somebody who might be looking for belonging and connection, purpose and meaning, might end up in a personal development organization, or a church, without realizing that it's a cult. Because in the love bombing stage, and love bombing means welcoming a person, joyously celebrating everything, you just feel like, wow, I've never experienced this level of connection before. But after the love bombing phase, when a person feels a sense of belonging and commitment, the next stage of the shadow side of charisma is where expectations come in. So a kind of group think, oh, no, we don't do that here, or no, that's not how we act. And so people gradually fall into a kind of a web, not realizing that the very things that drew them to that charismatic person in the beginning, were the things that that person uses as a trap. The famous case is Jim Jones, who managed to convince 900 people into a murder-suicide pact. The people who survived that will say he was so charismatic, we felt like we were special, that we were different, we were on a mission, we felt like a family, that's a word that charismatic cult leaders will often use. Unfortunately, they have really misused their charisma in a way that can have devastating results in a large group. But on an intimate partner level, those same processes can happen, the love bombing, the flowers, the attentiveness, the charisma where he makes me laugh. All these things that feel really good initially, are a kind of part of the trap, unfortunately. So how can we spot the difference between a genuinely charming person with good intentions and one who is up to no good? If there was a formula for that, so many people would be saved from the terrible experience of ending up with a malignant narcissist who's charismatic. So to answer your question, and I'll just speak in gender terms, because I work in the area of women and domestic violence coercive control. So how to spot the difference is often initially you can't, unfortunately, with time and practice, unfortunately, again, women can often spot the signs, but it can be very difficult, particularly in the digital world that we're in now. So in protective behavior training in women's shelters, we talk about if it's too good to be true, it's probably not true. But it takes time and experience to really spot those signs. Yeah. On a bigger stage, whether we're talking about national level politicians or titans of industry, who can rein them in if their charismatic personalities become a vehicle for misbehaviour? Julia? Well, facts can't, that we know. Objectivity can't, rationality can't. Most of the time, it is a powerful narrative that can do that, and more than anything else, another charismatic or charming person. And I do think there is a lot of suspicion and often rightly about charm out there. When I mentioned the book to people at airports or daycare drop-offs, they do say, oh, I'm quite suspicious about charm. But then, you know, I always ask back, and because I feel like there is a bit of a hypocrisy there, too, because ultimately, you know, we all want to be seduced, right? Like, who doesn't want to be seduced? So we have to understand this duality. And there's the same case in politics as well, that it can be used for the best outcomes. You know, we are all tired. We had enough of politics. We don't want to hear it. So a charming or charismatic person can really reconnect us. And we feel like we are part of a community, a tribe. But on the other side, you know, as we have just heard in domestic abuse, the same in politics as well. It can be weaponized for the worst possible political causes. And then we look at history that has happened. S1C1 Yes, Jeremy, this question is hardly new. People wrestled with it over 100 years ago, didn't they? S2P Yes. You know, one of the things I read that really was interesting to me is there was an editorial written in 1904 when Theodore Roosevelt was running for re-election. It was, of course, very charismatic, one of the most charismatic presidents in American history. And the editorial was by a journalist named Henry Watterson, who lived in Louisville, Kentucky, and he was arguing for why people should vote for Theodore Roosevelt's opponent, the dullest dishwater judge, Alton Parker. And Watterson argued that actually the fact that Parker was not charismatic was what would make him a better president than Roosevelt because he was less dangerous. He didn't have the ability to manipulate people and to sell them on something that wasn't true. And therefore, you could trust that what he said was what was going to happen. Coming back to today, the way we perceive charisma in our age of screens and social media is inevitably influenced by show business. So do we expect leaders, whether in politics or business, to look and behave like actors or celebrities? Are good looks key to charisma on and off the screen? Here are Forum listeners, Dudu and Shahpa. Yeah, definitely. Looks are such a big deal. The aesthetics, the beauty, how you dress, the makeup that you put on. Are you able to understand the trends? Are you able to pull large groups of people through your, basically just the things that you possess, like materialistic things. I think materialistic things also play a huge role in terms of do you have the latest car? Do you have the latest phone? Like living in Botswana in Africa, those things definitely add on to social media charisma, like somebody who's a charismatic leader on social media. You know, this immediately makes me think of Princess Diana because my generation grew up in awe of her, right? I mean, we grew up, see, I just turned 50. And so Princess Diana was, you know, the absolute epitome of everything that we ever wanted to be. She was our dream. And she was beautiful and she was flawless. And, you know, she was so charismatic. And now I think in 2024, when I think back and look back and I think about her, we never actually knew her at all. But she had that charisma. We just felt like we knew her. But now I wonder how much of it was due to her good looks. Because there's no denying it. She was an extremely beautiful human being inside and out. But her outward beauty, it contributed a lot to her charisma. And I think that's very true for a lot of these film stars that we see, like Cary Grant, for example, or, for example, Kim Kardashian. She's very charismatic. She's also extremely good looking. But there are also a lot of other charismatic people who are probably more influential than her who are not as good looking. For example, Elon Musk or Donald Trump. John, you wanted to come in here. I'd just like to touch on a little point when talking about Princess Diana. We wrote an article in 2009 published in the journal Science and it was titled Predicting Elections, Child's Play. What we did is we took faces of winners and run up in the French Parliamentary election and we showed them to kids, we made them play a game, and then we asked them to choose the captain of their boat and very reliably they chose the person who usually won. Now, why is that? That is interesting. And we've just replicated this result on the congressional elections that just happened in the US. Alexander Todorov from Princeton University is the person who started out this paradigm. And here's the thing, the more information rich the encounter is, the less you will use specious factors, spurious factors like the look and non-verbals. Or the more sophisticated the audience is, the less they're going to be prone to the look or to very spurious things like body language. So, you know, it turns out that people look at us, their sizes up, they look at our age, sex, height, skin color, symmetry, and put a price on our tag. If we look like a million dollars, they fill in the blanks and assume we have lots of positive characteristics. If we don't, we have a problem. But here's the thing. If you can speak in ways that can override that initial classification, it turns out that charisma can change the price tag people put around our necks. And something like that is going to be the title of the latest article we're working on, because we did these experiments with the Congressional elections. We look at the win and run up of the Congress, either the House or the Senate, and then we did three experiments. We had them rated when they were running against each other, we had them rated individually, and we got people to infer how smart, charismatic, and leader like they were. And then we stuck a charismatic or non-charismatic written speech, and we did, you know, with separate audiences, we did experiments, and it turns out that people make very different inferences on the person, on the basis of how they speak, and whether, you know, they have charisma, dense rhetoric, you know, using metaphor, storytelling values, and all the stuff I said before. So if it's true that you can learn to be charismatic and manipulate people, what does that do to the charismatic person themselves? Do they find it somewhat depressing? Um, that's a difficult question. I have done experiments where we have shown that we can get people to show more charisma. But again, it depends on what the moral compass of the person is, the socio-economic and cultural context in which they're working, and what their ultimate aim is. But what is interesting is that when people do learn to use charisma, and I've taught this with executives, IMBAs, et cetera, some of them feel a bit self-conscious in that they think that others will know what they're doing and what they're trying to do, and they're worried about the manipulation factor. But just to be clear from a philosophical point of view, what is manipulation? Manipulation is when you use your power to do something that won't benefit the other person or won't benefit the greater collectivity or the greater good. So if a leader uses their power in a moral way to do something good that will help the world adapt in a better way, it will help make the world a better place. And if every leader acted in that way, then it's actually the moral duties of leaders to use their powers to do good. Jeremy? I think that sometimes people are suspicious of charismatic leaders because they think that they're all flash and no substance, or that they don't feel that they could be trusted. But ultimately, I don't think that there's much evidence to support the idea that Henry Watterson was suggesting that it's better for leaders to be dull as dishwater. I think that's kind of an outdated idea that goes back to a historical distrust of kings dating to the 17 and 1800s. But I think it's pretty clear that people feel a need to connect with their leaders and that leaders who are able to fill that need also perform well on the world stage and in politics. And listener Chris reminded us that we shouldn't forget how big a role charisma plays when we shop. I think more so than anything, I think it's really important in sales. I think any kind of sales, be it traditional sales clerk at a brick and mortar store, be it mom and pop or big box retail, if it be a car salesman, if it be someone selling online legal case leads, I think that's really where it's most important. I say I think that's more important than somebody who is a celebrity, be it a politician or an actor. And the best interactions I typically have, and the best ones I've had in my life, have always been with people in those kinds of settings, be it at a comic book shop or a computer store. It's going to be those kinds of people who I take note of as, oh, this is an exceptionally charismatic individual. This is somebody who cares. This is somebody who is outgoing in a way that either hopefully or decidedly isn't too obnoxious. We've already heard that charisma means different things to different people. Forum listener Anand from India equates it with a person's inner strength. I believe a charismatic person must have the ability to take calculative risks, and he must be courageous, and also he must have the willingness to challenge the status quo. Anand, you're an avid chess player, and I think you said on Facebook that for you, the most charismatic player of all was the Latvian Grandmaster, Michael Tal. What kind of calculative risks did he take on the chessboard? He played in unorthodox style. Like, he once famously said there are two types of sacrifices, the correct ones and my own, because he used to sacrifice pieces for greater attacking chances, and it takes courage to be down in material in the chessboard. So even he sacrificed most powerful pieces, like his queen, to attack the opponents, and his habit of sacrificing pieces was so famous that the crowd used to cheer for him whenever he sacrificed pieces for initiatives and make the game of chess exciting and brings charisma in the playing style. Well, the clock tells me that our time for this particular forum is nearly up. My thanks to John Antonakis, Julia Sonnevend, Jeremy Young, and everyone who has contributed to this programme. If you are listening and would like to take part in one of our next editions, keep an eye on our website where we post topics and questions for you to debate. But for now, goodbye.