It's time for The Phil Ferguson Show. This is Phil Ferguson, and you, of course, are listening to The Phil Ferguson Show, the cleverly titled Phil Ferguson Show, episode number 516. While it's technically only one segment today, I do go into a couple other things, like China's AI program, retirement philosophies, et cetera, other things. Hopefully, you find all of that constructive and not too distracting, that I occasionally get off subject every once in a while. I get emails from people that don't like when I get off topic, and others love when I get off topic because it makes it more entertaining and it's like a real conversation with an actual human, not someone reading the script. So today's one and only one segment, in short here, is about 2025, early 2025, how I've made changes to the model portfolio, the general outline in my head of what the Polaris Plan is. I'm going to go over all of that plus more in the segment. But before we get into the segment, I wanted to just give you a little foundation. I'm breaking people up for the purposes of this change in the three different categories. There are people who are not near retirement. Whether that break is 12 to 15 years away from retirement, you are in the category of not near retirement. There's virtually no change for you, except for the possibility of a slight increase in your stocks in the allocation amounts to international versus the US market. Again, in the segment. Then there's the second group, which are people that are transitioning, adjusting, building the cushion. And you're 12 years from retirement, but more than four years from retirement, where you're growing the cushion on a regular, gradual basis. There is some opinions in there on what you should do. And that's really the biggest change for most people, is the people that are building the cushion. The third category is people that are already in retirement. The only thing that they might want to do is a slight increase in exposure to intermediate bonds. Again, the details in the segment, it's a very small adjustment. But theoretically, with the Polaris Plan, if your cushion is the right size, and I will mention in the segment, how long your cushion lasts in years, just a real quick summary, if you have a million dollars and you want to take out 50,000, and let's say you have 50, 50 stocks and bonds, well, it doesn't really matter. Well, it does matter. If the stocks are paying 2% dividends, then that's 50, 2% of $500,000 is about $10,000. If the bonds are paying 4%, then that's $20,000 on that $500,000. So your dividends from stocks and bonds together is $30,000. But if you're spending 50, you need to take 20 from somewhere else. You take that from the cushion. So my calculation on how long will the cushion last assumes that you're getting stock dividends, bond dividends, and then you need to sell some of the bonds while you're waiting out the huge volatility that can happen in the stock market. That's how I calculate how many years the portfolio will last, just so you have these basic outlines in mind before you go into the segment. So we'll do a couple of quick interlude break things, some funny bits maybe. I don't even know what I'm going to put in here yet, but we'll do that quick break, and then we'll go into the one and only real segment for today's show. Do you mind spending 30 seconds on dark matter, just for the heck of it? So when we observe galaxies, we find that they're spinning around at such a rate that stars on the edge should be flung outwards, sort of like water droplets on a bicycle wheel that's spinning fast, or water gets flung out. But the stars aren't getting flung out. Something must be holding them in. We don't see anything that can do that, but we know gravity has the power to hold things together. So, we imagine that maybe there's some matter out there that we don't see, dark matter, that's why we don't see it, it doesn't give off light, and that matter is exerting a gravitational pull, holding those stars together in these spinning galaxies. And when we make that hypothesis, it explains observation so spectacularly well that we begin to gain confidence that maybe the stuff that we haven't yet seen, and we haven't yet touched or smelled yet, maybe it's real. So we build big detectors and we try to capture one of these dark matter particles. We haven't succeeded yet, but I think that we will. So this is a beautiful example of how observations drive rational thinking to explain the facts and ultimately verify it through observation and experiment that can be replicated. That is what science is. The Phil Ferguson Show is for educational and entertainment purposes only. Nothing said on the show should be interpreted as personalized investment advice. Investments should be based in your personal situation, and you, of course, should consult with your financial advisor or tax professional before taking any actions. This segment is an update on the Polaris Plan. Keep in mind, sometimes I'll go years without making any material changes. And last August, I made a change. And now, in early 2025, probably February, by the time you listen to this, these are my new thoughts on how things could, should change. Keeping in mind that some of these changes don't affect you at all. Some of these changes might be inappropriate or not fit for your situation, for whatever reason. I also really, really want to ask people to try very carefully to embrace the nuance of the points that I'm going to try to make in this segment and do not overreact. I am not making any giant big changes. These are small, incremental changes due to market performance and maybe due to some concern over Trumpfuckery. So take a deep breath. This may trigger some people or upset some people, but we need to talk about it. And I'm going to go over my suggestions. The first thing I want to do is carve out a group of people that are already in retirement or are only two or three years from retirement, and their cushion is 100% built. If the cushion is built to your satisfaction, you probably don't need to change anything. Well, a couple little changes, but the bigger changes you don't have to do. The couple of little changes that you might want to make is in your cushion, I have been recommending 5% in intermediate corporate and intermediate government bonds. If you want to have 8%, maybe 10% in each one of those two categories instead of 5%, okay, I'm kind of leaning into that. If you have some extra cash from dividends from the end of the year or as you get dividends during this year, if you want to increase intermediate bonds, government and corporate from 5%, and you only have enough money to make it 6% or 7%, cool. So no longer limited to 5%, hard limit at 10%, but 5% to 10%, 5%, plus, I'm good with that. Taking a little bit more risk, but hopefully getting a little bit more return. And if interest rates go down, it'll be really nice. If interest rates go up from here, it could be not so nice. But the intermediate, at least the Vanguard funds that I use, have a duration of about 5% or 6%. So if interest rates go up 1%, you could lose 5% or 6% while getting a yield of around 4.5% to 5%. So the losses aren't that big. But if interest rates go down, you could make the 4.5% plus 5% or 6%, making 10% in those couple of bonds. But I don't want you to overdo it because they are more volatile. And the short-term bonds are paying about 4.5% to 5% also, and they don't have that much volatility. And this is one of the reasons I like to invest in different types of bonds because different changes in market environments, cultural environments, rate environments, have different effects on different types of bonds. And I don't know how you can take advantage of that if you're in a total bond fund, or if you're in some managed bond fund that willy-nilly decides which types of bonds. And they have some short and intermediate and long-term and Europe and international and junk bonds and et cetera, et cetera, high-yield bonds. They have them all in one big bond fund. That's cool, but you can't pick and choose. So when you're adding money, you can rebalance by buying the underperformer. If you're in retirement and one of those bond funds happens to make 10 or 12 or 15 percent, maybe that's a target for you to take money out of when you're rebalancing and spend it. Maybe the bond funds only make three or four percent, but the stock market went down 40 percent. Well, three percent positive looks freaking fantastic compared to 40 percent negative. So I like all those different bond funds that I use. So that's, you know, if you're already in retirement and you have your cushion, the right size, the right allocation, if you want to tweak it a little bit and increase intermediate bonds, cool. If you are in the other category where you're 12, 14, 15 years more from retirement, you don't have a cushion. So ignore that. It doesn't apply to you. If you're really far from retirement, keep on doing stocks. If Trump fucks up everything and it goes down, okay, well, that happens. The market went down dramatically in 2008. The market went down dramatically after the.com crisis. These are the things in the last 25 years. You can have really big drops, but if you're a long-term investor, at least historically, it always comes back. And matter of fact, while it's down, it's a great time for you to pile in money. So you might actually be, if you're 15 years from retirement, you might be in your peak earning years, and you can pile in more money while the market's down, and have a fantastic return after a couple of years of down markets, where it grows back up, and you're going to win, even in the scenario where it goes down. So people doing long-term, it's stocks, stocks, stocks, stocks. For people in retirement, the cushion is probably already set, because that's the whole idea, the purpose of the Polaris Plan. If you are, you know, 12 or 14 years or less to retirement, and generally, I recommend people build the cushion by one year, and maybe I need to redo a whole segment on how the cushion works. But if you have a million dollar portfolio, let's just say you have 100% in stocks, and you're going into retirement. If the stocks have a yield of 2%, that's $20,000. If you're taking out $50,000 a year, 5%, $20,000 comes from dividends, and then you have to sell $30,000 in stocks. That's how you get your 5%. As long as the market value of your portfolio goes up by 5% or more, theoretically, you can do that in perpetuity without a problem. The big problem comes if the market falls 20, 30, 40, 50% over a year or a couple of years, like after the dot-com crisis. Now the amount that you're taking out, you might still get the $20,000 in dividends, but if your portfolio falls to 50%, and you take $30,000 out of that, now you're taking out 6% plus the 2% dividends, you're taking out 8%. That's a big problem. Now you run the risk that you're going to run out of money. That's where the cushion comes in. So with the cushion, you have bond dividends and stock dividends, and maybe those dividends work out to be a blended rate of 3% because right now, bonds are paying much better rates. So that means you get $30,000 out of the million. And if the stock market falls down, you don't have to sell any stocks at these really big losses. You would then sell $20,000 in bonds. And you might think, okay, well, I could do that for 10 years if I have $200,000 in bonds. No, you can't because each year when you sell some of the bonds, the value of your bond portfolio goes down because you sold part of it. So it has to be bigger than $200,000 if you're taking out $20,000. And I have a spreadsheet that does all this. And if you want, I could play with it for you and give you a copy. Of course, you could just email me Phil at Polaris Financial Planning. But this is something I will sit down with clients and have very long conversations about. What do you make? How much are you saving? When are you going to retire? How likely is that? Is your dream to retire in five years, but you can go 10 if you have to? How much risk do you want to take? Do you have one income or two? Do you have... Are you going to get a large social security payout, or are you going to get a smaller one? Do you have a pension? Do you have something from the military that's going to provide you a pension? Is your spending flexible in retirement? How much do you want to travel? And could you skip a year or two to dramatically reduce the amount you're taking out? So all these little nuanced things affect this calculation of what your cushion should be But right now, I am saying, for the people in that interim, closer to retirement than 12, 14 years, and up to retirement if your cushion is not 100% full, I want you to increase your cushion. On average, each year you get closer to retirement, starting, let's say, 14 years out, I generally recommend, as a target, that you should increase your cushion sufficiently enough to add one year so that the portfolio, the cushion part of the portfolio, has the ability to cover your expenses for one year. And we want to gradually transition from one year's worth to two years to three years, et cetera, et cetera, until we get to 12 or 14 years. In some years, maybe it's a little bit more than one, because maybe you should have the cushion fully loaded before five years before you retire. So maybe it's a little bit more than one per year. And then there have been times, like calendar year 2022, where the market was down 25 percent, when I'm talking to my clients and I'm saying, this year, we're not going to do it. This year, we're not going to take some stocks and sell them and put them in the cushion, because the stocks are down a whole bunch. I mean, I think that's commonsensical. Does that work? But now we have two to two and a half years, where the S&P 500 is up 60, 70, maybe 80 percent, depending on the day you're listening to this. You're in the position where you probably made a whole lot of money in the last two, two and a half years. This is a great time to take that off. And instead of increasing the cushion by a year, and instead of increasing it by two years, maybe you want to increase it by three years. If you're particularly freaked out and concerned about Trump, okay, maybe four years, maybe five, particularly if you've been behind. If you were taking the risk and writing the tiger kind of thing, and you've made a whole bunch of money, and your cushion was smaller than it should have been when you entered into the calendar year 2025, go ahead and go from two years of cushion to seven, depending on your situation. And again, if you're not sure how all this works, you can email me. Like I said, phil at polarisfinancialplanning.com. We can go over it. This is why, in part, I've been so incredibly busy because once I got to January 3rd or 4th, and I had all of the new data and knew what dividends everyone had received from December, I am trying to go over and reconcile and rebalance around 130 clients' accounts. When you're listening to this, I'm probably pretty close to being done. And I have my fingers crossed that I hope that I'm done for all the people in that middle range. Because like I said, if you're younger and further from retirement, nothing really changed. You just need to do a rebalance, or I need to do the rebalance for you if you're a client. If you're already in the time of your life where the cushion is fully loaded because you're a couple years out from retirement, or you're already in retirement, nothing there needs to change except for the possibility of increasing your intermediate bonds a few percentage points. And if you don't do it, it doesn't really bother me. You know, it's just a thought. Some way you can take a teeny bit more risk and maybe make a teeny bit better return, depending on future conditions. The other thing that I'm doing is international overall as a part of the stock portfolio. I've been saying 30 to 35 percent, but I really want you to try to push it to the 35. A lot of people, you know, if they're 26, 28 percent, that's close enough to 30. But now I really want to go to 35 percent. And that does apply to people that are farther from retirement. And actually, that applies to everybody to try to get a little bit more international. A couple of reasons for that. International is underperformed. Although if you take out a handful of stocks, like the magnificent seven, last year, international would have beaten the entire US market if you take out those seven stocks. If at some point there's some big market change, and China announced a new AI bit of software, DeepSeek or something like that. It doesn't really matter what the name is. I've forgotten it at this point, but they announced it, and they announced that it's going to be free for everybody to use. And they announced that it uses less processing power. And the whole AI world that has been hyped to fucking the stratosphere, at least in one day, there were companies that lost 5 and 10 percent in value, and it was the magnificent 7s that are going to be hit the most, because they're the ones throwing hundreds of millions and billions of dollars into AI. And now it turns out that other companies could get in and compete with them for a fraction of the cost. These are the kinds of random changes or not random changes, because there are some people that believe, and I might even be in this bucket, that China is giving this away for free, just to fuck with the US markets. And they're eating the cost of what it costs to produce and or run this bit of software. There is also a reasonably good consideration that when you want to use this free software and you click on the user agreement, you might be, and I don't know if this is true or not, I have not read the code. I don't even know how to read the code. You might be granting China the ability to see all of your information. And I'm not talking about what you're looking for in the AI tool. I'm talking about the possibility that they know every fucking thing that you do. Every text that you send, every blue sky post that you make, every stock that you trade if you use your phone or the device that you have this software on your computer, there is the possibility that their code can do that. And you might click the user agreement that says you're okay with that. And a lot of people who would be out of their minds with rage if the US government tried to do that will now intentionally or accidentally, unknowingly grant the Chinese government more access to their phone and data than the US government. This is a concern. I don't know if I'm overreacting, but I will not be using China's AI software. Thank you very much. Even if it's free, I'm not using any AI software at the moment. And maybe that's an error on my part. Maybe I'm missing out on something. But again, that's just where my head is at. I'm not going to use it. But you can have something like that, that changes the entire marketplace, and the things that were the hottest and most built up have the biggest distance to fall. So just keep an eye on your portfolio. Don't get too overweighted in large cap growth. Maybe rebalance, because you probably need a rebalance, given the last year's market activity. Add some more to international from your domestic. That can be harder to do if the vast majority of your holdings are in a taxable account, because large cap growth has made so much money that if you sell some of it, you could have a tax bill of hundreds or thousands or 10,000 or $20,000 if you're lucky enough to have a portfolio that big. Only you can make the decision of whether that's worth it for you. I think it probably is. Keeping in mind, long-term capital gains tax rates for most people is 15 percent. It can still create quite a tax bill. But unless you die or until you die, you're going to pay the capital gains tax on those long-term gains unless you give the money away. After you die, of course, if you give a taxable accounts to your descendants, they get the thing called the step-up basis and nobody pays the tax. So if you happen to be in a situation where you have stage four lung cancer or some other horrible, unfortunate event, and your five-year life expectancy is low, then maybe don't rebalance, because why pay the tax if in two or three years it's going to your descendants and they don't need to pay the tax? These are some of the really unfortunate and grim things to consider if tax avoidance is really important to you. And I plan to give money to charities. My wife and I, we plan to give some money to charities, but we do plan to give a reasonable amount of money to our kids. So we have to consider those things. And you may make one choice that turns out to not work, but things change, just like the segment on Roth conversions. Things change. Things are complicated. But if you can think about these things, depending on your situation, you might be able to avoid tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxes, depending on what your goals and intentions are. And this is one of the things with clients, and they'll tell you, if you ask one of them, we'll have a phone call, and I'll say, how much are you making? When do you plan to retire? What is this? What is this? What is this? And every once in a while, someone will say, Phil, we covered all of this last year. I know we did, but I don't want to assume that nothing has changed. Because sometimes people will say, you know what, last time I told you I was going to work 10 more years in the job, and now I'm thinking it's two. I fucking hate my job. I mean, me personally, Phil Ferguson, in the past, I've had jobs where I would be in tears, driving to my day job, driving to work, because I hated it that much, but they were paying me a lot of money, and I needed the money, right? I mean, that's why we work, because I needed the money. But the stress, the anxiety was just off the charts. And matter of fact, the last full-time job that I had quite a few years ago, when they called me in the office and literally handed me a fucking cardboard box and said, go get your stuff, you don't work here anymore, was actually a very fucking happy day, because the next day, I did not have to go into that office. I was freaked out about what I'm going to do next for a job, but I was so relieved to not have to go back into that environment. So sometimes jobs change, companies get bought, there's divorces, there's new marriages. And that's why I ask often the same questions that we talked about six months ago, three months ago, 12 months ago, two years ago, whenever we last talked, whenever we got that time together to go over it, because I want to make sure I have the current data, the current situation for you and your life. And sometimes there's people that go, Phil, my job is a joy. Everyone at work is fantastic. I might go to part time, but I'm not ever going to quit because I like it. And for some people, not having that job takes away part of what defines who they are. Good or bad, you have to evaluate your situation. Anyway, I'm just going to wrap up here with that. If you have questions about this or any other financial topic, or there's a segment you want me to do on something around investing or religion or politics, I can give you my thoughts. And I'm wrapping up this segment, and we'll go on with the rest of the show. You're listening to The Phil Ferguson Show. Jesus says that he speaks in parables because the people, they just don't understand anything else. But the parables are often foggy and meaningless, and Jesus is snippy when even the disciples don't get them. He says to them, if you don't understand this parable, then how can you understand any parable? And are you incapable of understanding? I kept thinking, don't teach in parables then. It's not working. Even your staff doesn't understand them. Why don't you just say what you mean? Okay, so Jesus isn't so patient, and I think he picked a very ineffective lesson-giving technique, and he's angry most of the time, but that doesn't make him bad. It's just, wow, I really expected someone else. Some of the parables are not just foggy. To me, they're sort of offensive. Like in Luke, Jesus helps us understand God's relationship with humans by telling us a story about how God treats people the way people treat their slaves. They beat some more than they beat others. Okay, I know this was a different time and everything, and I really tried to keep that in mind, as the Bible refers to slavery all over the place. And not only does it not say it's wrong, I mean, the Bible gives you advice about how you're supposed to keep your slaves and how slaves should behave obediently at old times to their masters. But I don't know, I guess I sort of thought the Son of God would say slavery was wrong. But no, Jesus does not say that. In fact, he uses slavery as an example of how God treats people. It was really hard to stay on Jesus' side when he started saying really aggressive, just hateful things. Like in Luke, chapter 21, Jesus says that he is like a king who says, anyone who does not recognize me, bring them here and slaughter them before me. Or in John, chapter 15, Jesus says anyone who does not believe in me is like a withered branch that will be cast into the fire and burned. In Matthew, he says, I come not to bring peace, but a sword. And in Luke, he says, and if you don't have a sword, sell your clothes and buy one. Then Jesus just starts acting downright crazy. Like in Matthew, chapter 21, when this fig tree doesn't have a fig for Jesus to eat, he condemns the fig tree to death. That's right, Jesus condemns a fig tree to death. Not a parable, by the way, just Jesus pissed off that the fig tree didn't have a fig for him to eat when he wanted one. Not exactly the Prince of Peace who taught us to turn the other cheek. And then there's family. I have to say that for me, the most deeply upsetting thing about Jesus is his family values, which is amazing when you think how there's so many groups out there who say they based their family values on the Bible. I mean, he seems to have no real close ties to his parents. He puts his mother off cruelly over and over again. At the wedding feast, he says to her, woman, what have I to do with you? And once, while he was speaking to a crowd, Mary waited patiently off to the side to talk to him, and Jesus said to the disciples, send her away, because you are my family now. Matthew, Mark, and Luke all tell this exact same story, but Mark actually tells us why Mary was there to see Jesus. He says Mary came to see Jesus to restrain him because the people were saying he's gone out of his mind. I kept thinking, yes, let's go get Jesus and get him some help. You've made it this far. Congratulations. I'm delighted that you're here. I'm delighted that you're listening to the show. And hopefully, you continue to prosper while the chucklefucks of the Trump administration screw with people's lives and livelihoods, literally lives. The complete destruction of USAID, USAID department, which was a fraction of 1% of the total US budget. I think we're going to find out, history will be the judge, that literally tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of people will die. It will weaken our stance on the global stage, and it provides an excellent opportunity, quite honestly, for China to step up and replace the aid that we're giving at a, again, less than 1% cost probably to their budget, and they can be the good guys helping out and replacing the things that the United States, the obligations, the promises, the services that the United States was providing that we just fucking walked away from, without any warning, without any preparation. Hopefully, you're limiting yourself and your exposure. Quick recap on the plan changes. Again, if you are not really close to retirement, a slight increase in your international exposure, because it has underperformed a little bit, as a hedge against the wonderful returns, particularly of the large cap growth segment of the US market, we're looking at 35%. You don't exactly have to get there, but I really want you to try to push your international exposure from 20% to 25% to 30% to 35%, 35% is the target right now. That's all you really need to change. It doesn't have to be in one go. If your portfolio is small and you're adding a considerable amount of money during the next year or two, you could work your way there with just new contributions. It might help you avoid tax consequences in a taxable account. If you are already in retirement or only just a couple of years from retirement and you've already built your cushion, the only thing you need to do possibly is increase the allocation to intermediate government and intermediate long-term or intermediate corporate bonds, not long-term at all, just a few percentage points, maybe five percentage points, more of the cushion itself to try to take advantage there in case rates go down. So if Trump screws up the economy and interest rates fall, you could make 10 or 12 percent in those intermediate bonds as a nice reward, as a nice hedge of Trump screwing things up, so you could win that way. If rates go up because Trump triggers a whole lot of inflation, well, it's not going to work that good. It's going to be a problem for you, so that's why we don't want it to be too much of the portfolio. We're trying to hedge against different things with different assets. But the biggest change is for the people in the middle. If you are building the cushion and your cushion is not 100% built yet, and you're not long from retirement, give serious consideration to increasing, materially increasing. I don't want to say dramatically. But increasing your cushion in a significant way in such that the number of years that the cushion could protect you is increased two to four years, maybe five years if you're behind, like I said in the segment. If you don't know what that all means, or you want me to look at something, send me an email, phil at polarisfinancialplanning.com. In the first email, do not send any confidential information. Don't send me any statements. Don't send me your date of birth. Don't send me your social security number. Do send your phone number. Then I can call you and make sure I have the right person and that you actually sent the email to the right place. We can talk. If you want to have me, if you want to send me more information after that, then okay. But don't just blindly send to an email address, because if you mistype, it might go somewhere you don't want it to go. Anyway, that wraps up this segment. Hopefully, you've enjoyed it. Let me see. I think I have stuff already in queue for the next show. So I hopefully will work up a segment on annuities. And I do a really nice segment, I think, on a webinar that I've already listened to. I've already recorded this segment. It's already, it'll just be in the next episode, where I went to a webinar and read a white paper for Morningstar about how much, what percentage should you take out from your portfolio each and every calendar year. So that wraps up this show. The wrap-up is nice and short, nice long segment on portfolios. If you have questions, email me. Otherwise, hopefully, I will see you at FreeFlow Conference in Central Florida in the middle of March. Just Google it. Central Florida Free Thought Community. The conference is FreeFlow 2025. I'm pretty sure it's freeflow.org. And if you've not already signed up and gotten a hotel room and tickets for the conference, go check that out. I do hope to see you there. And until then, adios.