US stocks have been sliding. Are they primed for a bounce, or is this the start of a significant correction? This is The Markets. I'm Chris Hussey, and today is Wednesday, March 12th. I'm joined by Ashok Varadhan, co-head of Goldman Sachs' Global Banking & Markets Division. Ashok, great to have you back on the show. Good to be back, Chris. All right, let's cut to the chase. What's driving US equities lower? Has the narrative shifted, or is it still the same as it's ever been? I'd say maybe some of the narrative has shifted, but I think it's important to think about initial conditions. When you think about, we came into this year and subsequent to the inauguration at fairly elevated levels by any historical metric. And certainly, if you look at 23, 24, US economy sort of grew above trend. That was a little bit of a surprise for most market gurus. And a lot of that was driven by continued government spending, the benefit from supply side labor, immigration, and of course, the AI theme, not only the investment led spending, but also the market leaders rallying significantly and sort of driving up the indices associated with that. And so, we ended up having a presidential election, and the president having a mandate with respect to essentially the Republicans having both chambers of Congress. And so, I think the prevailing conclusion was that the US economy would continue to grow above trend, and that the European economy and the Chinese economy would remain very challenged. And so, it wasn't going to take a lot when you had that much consensus and positions reflecting that degree of consensus thinking. It wasn't going to take much for gravity to reveal itself. And so, to me, where we are right now is maybe a little bit more a reflection of where we were coming into the year, as opposed to a harbinger of where we're going. Yeah, we've taken the froth off the market, but we haven't actually seen the growth scare materialize in the data yet. We had CPI today. That came in even soft. What would you say about the data so far? Are you concerned with what you've seen yet? Are you watching for something? Obviously, some of the policy news that we've had come in with respect to the desire to decrease government spending in certain areas, some of the increased geopolitical tensions around Russia-Ukraine and how that ends up getting resolved, and then, of course, the uncertainty around the ultimate implementation of tariffs, all of that stuff, you're not going to see that show up in the underlying data until maybe well into Q2. And so, I'd say what we've seen thus far is data that has been sort of modestly a little bit softer, but really you have to see if this is going to show up in the next 10 to 12 weeks. So, given that data lag, do you sit on your hands or do you take advantage of this 10% almost correction? Where's the opportunity? I think someone had mentioned this to me and people talk about this a lot. If you actually look at the multiples, sort of X the mag 7, and you look at where the multiples were, certainly they were elevated, but I wouldn't characterize them as stretched. And so, to me, I would say when things like this happen and you end up getting corrections of this magnitude this quickly, people have a tendency to throw the baby out with the bathwater, and I think it's an opportunity to look at good companies that you think have good prospects. Certainly, growth has been downgraded from, call it, the mid-2s to maybe the high 1s in the US this year, but certainly, if the US economy grows at 2% real and things don't fall out of bed, there's probably some good value on the board. Is there anything that's catching your eye in terms of where you would want to be if you're going to leg into US.? I think just broad-based cyclical names are due to perform well. I still think, if you indeed have 2% growth, inflation will moderate. That will certainly put pressure on resources. That will allow the Fed to be accommodative. We have an FOMC meeting next week. That should provide underlying support for risk assets. Good point. So, is the US still the place to be, or do you like non-U.S. assets here? I still think the US is the place to be. Obviously, you can get into debates over relative valuation. Certainly, you've seen a lot of anticipation in Europe and a big rotation into Europe over the course of the last few weeks and more recently, in anticipation of some of the fiscal expansion. But I think the proof is going to be in the pudding. There's still a lot of political hurdles to make sure that those spending plans can get approved. And of course, they'll be facing tariffs as well. Are rates going to go lower from here, do you think, especially if inflation stays subdued, or do you feel rates are not? I think the distribution for front-end rates are lower. Again, you already have a couple of cuts priced in, and so the front-end of the rate curve seems fairly well-priced, and the back-end of the rate curve is really going to depend on whether or not we end up making fiscal progress. If we don't make fiscal progress, then it's going to be hard to get US long rates lower. That being said, if we do, they could go lower. Yeah, people do forget that tariffs raise a lot of revenue for the fiscal progress side, but if tax cuts were to come in, that would be the flip side of that. All right, tail risk. Is there anything you got your eyes open for in the tail risk side? Well, I think we certainly lived through some, I don't know if you'd call it tail risk. Maybe it's like lower body. It doesn't get all the way to the tail. I don't know. What I would say is it has to still be in the geopolitical arena. I would say what growth ends up being, what inflation ends up being, even if you have some unevenness around trade policy, those are all things that are manageable and there may be some speed bumps, but I think the market will be able to absorb that. Geopolitical risk, I think, really changes the tenor of how you think about investing over a medium-term time horizon. And that has gone up a little bit, certainly given the fact that when you look at a little bit of what's transpired. Agreed. Last question. What is your favorite trade? Put me on the spot like this. I think I'm going to pick a combination. I still really like being along the linear combination of US bonds and stocks. We obviously, on the asset management side of the house, preach stay invested. I'd say never more now in terms of a good 60-40 portfolio in the US. Great. What are you watching for next week and the weeks ahead here? Certainly, FOMC meeting will pay attention to that. Obviously, people are paying a little bit less attention to classic economic policy and paying much more attention to policy in Washington. My maybe a little bit out of consensus view is I think some of the noise in Washington will die down a little bit and I think we're going to get back to looking how the US economy evolves. And finally, MLB, believe it or not, kicks off in Japan next week. Do the Yankees have a shot to get it back to the real world? You know, it's still too cold for me to think about baseball. Starting in April is like unfathomable to me. And so when you have me on in the summer, we can start. We can talk baseball. All right, we're going to do that. Ashok, thanks so much. Thank you. That does it for this week's episode of The Markets. I'm Chris Hussey. Thanks for listening. And if you want to hear more from Goldman Sachs, listen to Exchanges, our weekly podcast about the long-term trends impacting the economy and investors' portfolios. The opinions and views expressed in this program may not necessarily reflect the institutional views of Goldman Sachs or its affiliates. This program should not be copied, distributed, published, or reproduced in whole or in part or disclosed by any recipient to any other person without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs. Each name of the third-party organization mentioned in this program is the property of the company to which it relates. It uses peers strictly for the informational identification purposes only and is not used to imply any ownership or license rights between any such company and Goldman Sachs. The content of this program does not constitute a recommendation for any Goldman Sachs entity to the recipient and is provided for informational purposes only. Goldman Sachs is not providing any financial, economic, legal, investment, accounting, or tax advice through this program or to its recipient. Certain information contained in this program contains forward-looking statements, and there is no guarantee that these results will be achieved. Goldman Sachs has no obligation to provide updates or changes to the information in this program. Past performance does not guarantee future results, which may vary. Neither Goldman Sachs nor any of its affiliates makes any representation or warranty expressed or implied as to the accuracy or completeness of the statements or any information contained in this program and any liability, therefore, including and in respect of direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage is expressly disclaimed.