Welcome to Making Money, this is Matt McCall. Thanks for joining me. It's the 2nd of November, 2023. We got a repeat guest, a big guest coming up for you, Scott Melker, the wolf of all streets, as he calls himself. This guy's been involved in cryptocurrencies and Bitcoin for a long time. He's gonna join the show and talk about the recent move that we've seen in Bitcoin specifically. We've seen it break out to a new 2023 high. Bitcoin is now up over 100% this year, crushing all other asset classes and Scott believes it's just the beginning. We're gonna talk about the spot ETF that potentially could be approved any day now. We're gonna talk about the calendar, the halvening, which is coming up next year. Typically very bullish for both Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies. We'll break it all down and get the one investment Scott's taken away to the island for 10 years. All that more coming up right now on Making Money. NVIDIA may be America's top-performing stock, after more than doubling this year alone. But if you're holding NVIDIA, or thinking of buying it, to get a stake in the $7 trillion AI market, you're going to want to see Mark Chakin's new AI prediction first. Mark is a regular in many news outlets, from Fox Business to CNBC, and built the stock indicator Wall Street uses to find winning stocks. His award-winning system flashed by on Tesla, before it climbed 335%. Moderna, before it climbed 300%. And Riot Blockchain, before it climbed 10,090%. It also found NVIDIA at the start of 2023, before its massive bull run. But right now, Mark is stepping forward to warn people to stay away from NVIDIA. My system has indicated that NVIDIA is no longer the best stock to buy to profit from AI, is what Mark says. In fact, it just flashed by on a totally different AI stock. And today, he'd like to hand you the name and ticker symbol of his number one AI stock to buy right now. For the limited time, you can get this information for free at www.aifrenzy23.com. Again, that's aifrenzy23.com for a free copy of his new report. All right, folks, as I mentioned, Bitcoin has been on the move as of late, and I needed to get an expert into the studio, somebody who I trusted, somebody who's been around this industry for a long time, and somebody that has great insights, been on the show before, Scott Melker, wolf of all streets, joining us again here at Making Money. Thanks for joining us, Scott. Thanks, Matt. How are you? Doing well, doing well. Thanks. I got to say, you know, this is a couple days after Halloween. We're taping this on Halloween, and I was going through your Twitter, just getting your insights. You post so much every day. I saw a great picture of your family dressed up. I got to tell you, you guys went to the Nines. I hope you won some type of award at some party for that. It was our own party, so we couldn't award it to ourselves, although I do feel like we deserved it. Yeah, my wife and I were Britney Spears and Justin Timberlake in The Denim, and the kids were Madonna and Michael Jackson. We went kind of as the pop star theme. We do something sort of family-themed every year. It's a lot of fun. That's awesome. That's awesome. Good for you. Yeah, this year, I've been a bit lazy, I have to say, but a lot going on in Bitcoin, so it's kind of keeping us busy. So let's just jump into, first of all, just the action recently. In the last week, we broke above some important resistance levels up to the best level of the year. What's really driving that, Scott? I think it's Bitcoin spot ETF hype, to be quite honest. Also, you can just look at this point in the four-year Bitcoin cycle and see that you would be ramping up into the Bitcoin halving, which comes next year. So nothing here is a surprise even in a vacuum, but when you sort of supercharge it with the institutional interest in the space and the likelihood of a Bitcoin spot ETF approval, I really think that people are trying to front run that news. This is one of those rare situations where actually you get to front run institutions and buy something ahead of them likely coming into the space in droves. And so I think that that's what's driving it. We've seen large moves even on fake news surrounding the Bitcoin spot ETF over the past couple of weeks. Two weeks ago, on a Monday, we had Cointelegraph saying that the BlackRock ETF had been approved. We saw price go from $28,000 to $38,000. It was deemed fake news 20 minutes later, right back down to $28,000. But it gave us an idea of what people were expecting, even just on a simple tweet, and what could happen. And then the next week, there was a lot of hype around BlackRock listing as IBTC on DTCC effectively preparing, right, which meant that they would have to start actually seeding their fund, meaning they would have to actually start buying. Come to find out that was actually there since August. But once again, the market saw it, thought it was new, and price went from 31 to 35. So I think it's very clear that there's a thirst for this, and people are trying to get in ahead of it. Well, what's nice is you mentioned the first time it popped, it kind of came back down. This recent pop up to 35, we're hanging around 34 or 35 right now. To me from a technical basis, breaking above that resistance and hanging above there, even though we haven't had any really solid news yet, do you view that as more of a follow through that people are seeing it? Was it short covering? Short covering usually doesn't last that long. What do you think is really holding it up there right now? Well, I think short covering helps. I think that there was a gamma squeeze for sure. If you take a look at what the market makers were doing in their open options trades, it makes a lot of sense that that helps to fuel it, but it always does on the way up or down. You see short squeezes and long squeezes contributing to any larger move, especially on an asset like this that's largely traded with leverage and has a relatively low volume and market cap. Listen, Bitcoin is twice the price it was after the FTX collapse. This is not a small move off the lows, right? And so it is significant, and you have to take it very seriously. I do think it's exactly what you said. We had this sort of 31,800, 31,000, depending on the exchange high that was put in for the year. We were traced all the way back to the 25 level, which to me was the most important level on the chart, because breaking above 25, if you look at market structure, technically was the first higher high that this market had ever put in on the way down from 69,000. So to me, that was the end of the bearish market structure, the beginning of a bullish market structure of higher highs and higher lows. So coming back down, holding that, I was kind of pretty vocally all in at that point again, with what was left, and here we are at 35. But breaking that 31-ish level, as you mentioned, and holding above it so strong, I mean, that's now the key support rather than 25. So you're up a good 20% on your expectation of the floor. That's meaningful. Breaking a yearly high matters. Breaking a level that's that significant matters. So technically, it's a big move, and fundamentally, I think it's a huge move, because there's really just no visible major sellers in this market. So obviously, I always read Twitter and what's going on, or X as they call it now. And there's bears out there constantly will be naysayers if everything happens in Bitcoin. I'm not going to mention a guy's name. He's been wrong in the stock market for 20 plus years. But his comments on the spot Bitcoin ETF that he's writing that, well, if institutions want exposure to Bitcoin, they can already get it now. This isn't going to change that at all. I don't agree with that. Can you explain to our viewers a little bit where that's coming from in your view on this? Just because you can find a way to get some exposure to something doesn't mean it's the way that you want to get exposure to that thing or that you would go fully in with the capital that you want in that asset class just because you can. There's a lot of people who buy MicroStrategy as a proxy for a Bitcoin spot ETF because MicroStrategy's books are so heavily now in Bitcoin, obviously. They've added consistently to their treasury, putting Bitcoin on their balance sheet. You have, of course, the Bitcoin futures ETFs, but those are extremely subpar products because they don't really track the underlying spot asset, especially as they get more demand, people have to buy futures contracts that are further out to fill that demand. We saw when BITO, the first one from ProShares, when that was launched, which was, by the way, the top of the market, as was the CME futures launch, a lot of people point to the spot ETF as they like the market top, but we can get into that another time. But when that launched, it was the most successful ETF launch in history, both in volume and speed to 1 billion, which was about 48 hours. So there was insane demand even for a subpar futures product at that time. Well, that's all going to flow into the spot. Nobody's going to own a Bitcoin futures ETF when they can buy a Bitcoin spot ETF. We actually have seen gold futures ETFs die over time as all of it flowed into the gold spot ETFs that became available. So that's a pretty good roadmap there. But you could buy MicroStrategy, you could buy these futures ETFs. A lot of people would buy Bitcoin miners, but they're very, very high beta. They're extremely volatile. It's almost like buying Bitcoin with leverage, sort of like trading an altcoin. The miners move 20% when Bitcoin moves 5%. So that's been tougher. And the mining industry has its own sort of intricacies and unique features. A lot of people buy Coinbase as a proxy for Bitcoin. But the thing is, you'll see that Bitcoin itself has become largely untethered and uncorrelated from every other asset class. People used to make the argument that it traded like a tech stock, that it's a risk on asset. Sometimes it's trading like gold. Sometimes it's an inverse correlation to the dollar. All of that is nonsense. Historically, Bitcoin is extremely uncorrelated. It's the holy grail of assets for you to hold because it has idiosyncratic risk. We can get into that later as well. But the fact is, none of these assets truly track Bitcoin. All of those other things are still stocks, right? And Bitcoin's up and stocks are down. So the stock market itself is not dragging Bitcoin down, but it is dragging down MicroStrategy and miners and Coinbase, which may have seen a more significant pop to the upside alongside Bitcoin, but they have more than just a correlation to Bitcoin to deal with. Yeah, on Tuesday's show, I looked at year to date some big asset classes. At the time heading into Tuesday's trading, Bitcoin was up 107% for the year 2023. You looked at the equal weight S&P 500 actually down a few percentage points. You take away the big seven. The market sucked this year. Bitcoin still doubled in this time frame. But if you told the average person on the street, Scott, or even at our conference, we just had with 500 people, and they're not all in Bitcoin, you told them that they'd be like, no, Bitcoin is struggling. Bitcoin is doing terrible because in their mind, they keep thinking 68,000, 69,000. It's not there. But in reality, it's greatly outperformed every asset class this year. Isn't gold supposed to be going through the roof with interest rates and inflation up? I think it will, but gold obviously doesn't have the exciting volatility of Bitcoin, and we know that. And I think you made a great point because in the last bull market, even at the beginning, even through the bear market, I was consistently getting calls from family and friends, it's time to buy Bitcoin, what's going on with Bitcoin? Crickets. I haven't heard a single word from anyone. In my echo chamber, of course, everybody's talking about a spot ETF or complaining about Gary Gensler, but nobody on the street is thinking about these things. They're thinking about the price of milk, right? I mean, your average person is thinking about inflation, they're thinking about Fed policy maybe for the first time, they're bitching about the treasury and debt going from 31 trillion to 33 trillion in a matter of months. Nobody's talking about Bitcoin right now, which gives me the indication that we're still extremely, extremely early in this move. The FOMO hasn't even kicked in and price has doubled. People just don't realize it, but you might remember, March 2020, Bitcoin bottomed sub $4,000 after the $20,000 high. You had sort of this $20,000 high, you went all the way down to $30,000, all the way down to $3,000, excuse me, back up to $14,000, back down under $4,000. And that was the COVID lows of March 12th of 2020. Stock market bottomed 10, 12 days later. And then the entire world, the greatest bull market in stocks of all time doubled in a matter of years. Bitcoin went up 17 times to $69,000, right? So just to put in perspective the size, relative moves of Bitcoin versus these other markets that people just don't realize. And you know what's even crazier? If you were trading GBTC this year, you're up over 200%. It's done twice as well as Bitcoin because of the closing discount as this ETF hype approaches. So you could get even double the returns just on betting on GBTC over BTC, which you could argue is the best performing asset of the year. True. Very good point. So you kind of talked about this a moment ago. There's obviously a lot of people saying if when the spot BTC ETF is approved, this is the top. This is kind of buy the rumor, sell the news. What is your view on that? I think you buy the rumor, and then you buy the dip after the news if that comes. I don't think it's time to sell Bitcoin. I certainly don't think you want to be shorting Bitcoin. You get caught picking up pennies in front of a steamroller. This is not just some news event. This is a fundamental change in the market and the way that participants can be a part of it. And so there's a lot. Now, listen, maybe we're wrong about this, but seemingly there's a ton of institutional interest on the sidelines, even retail interest on the sidelines that either won't or can't self-custody Bitcoin. They don't want to own it outright, but are waiting for a product that allows them to. Registered Investment Advisors, RIAs, have a fiduciary responsibility to their clients. Even if they're the die-hardest Bitcoiners of all time, they can't tell their clients with any responsibility to allocate a meaningful percentage of their portfolio to this asset class and then try to explain to them how to hold their private keys and put this on a ledger. And so they end up in that slew of subpar products that we talked about before. A Bitcoin spot ETF allows every single person in the world to gain exposure. I won't say to buy Bitcoin because it really is not the same, and that's an important nuance, but to gain exposure to this asset class and truly track the underlying with extremely low fees, just like any ETF. These ETF launches, gold being the best example. I mean, these unlock just massive, massive, massive amounts of capital, and I expect that to happen too. But maybe like many events, it's an immediate sell the news, but then the actual fundamental importance of it kicks in. There's an extremely low supply of this asset in the world. It's 21 million ever, probably 19 million now. Six million of those are probably lost, and 75% of those have not moved in two years. The float of this asset class is exceptionally low. So what happens when even a casual endowment tries to make a 0.1% allocation to Bitcoin? I mean, it's like a 10% move in the asset just because they want to gain that exposure. So listen, what we could be wrong about is how much interest there is. But if we're right about that, the math is very simple. I mean, this is an up only situation once they start buying. I'm glad you brought up the RA, Register Investment Advisor, which is what most people watching this, if they don't manage their own money, they go to somebody who's an RA, and I had an RA for 17 years. I sold two years ago. And I'll tell you, Scott, between running it back then, and it was a little bit more popular at certain times, it was more popular, but I'd say about 40%, 50% of my clients wanted exposure at some way, some manner to BTC or cryptos in general. Then I'd go give these speeches to these groups of RAs that were much bigger than mine, billions and billions of dollars under management. They wouldn't know BTC if it was sitting right in front of them. They had no idea. All they knew is that if they didn't learn about it and didn't find a way to get exposure, they're going to lose clients. So the big money is sitting out there, and now this makes it so simple for them. Like you said, they're fiduciaries, right? They can't say go to Coinbase and buy this. They can now put a half percent or one percent of portfolio in it. And they can get paid. And they can get paid. That's what matters. Sending you to Coinbase, they don't get paid. They're not going to do that. But listen, this has been historically the worst period in history for the 60-40 portfolio. I don't understand how RIAs still have business recommending a 60-40 portfolio. And maybe it's just 60-35-5 or 60-39-1. But people need to get some sort of alternative asset class. For them, that can be gold or silver. I don't care. For me, obviously, I think it's Bitcoin. Frankly, for me, it's Bitcoin gold and silver. But I think that even just a five percent allocation in those asset classes just improves the Sharpe ratio of your portfolio massively. Now, listen, what I said before, and I want to touch on this, because it's really important, finding an asset that's uncorrelated to other assets to put into your portfolio, even in a small percentage, is literally the holy grail of investing. And Bitcoin has been provably uncorrelated to other asset classes. Even if you emotionally hate Bitcoin, you think it's rat poison, you think it's a Ponzi scheme, you think it's a scam, you can still mathematically look at it and say, it's uncorrelated if I own 1% and the world crashes down and this thing goes up 10%, I've saved my portfolio, even if I hate it. So detaching the emotion, this is an asset or something like it that everybody should have in their portfolio, and 60-40 is dead. You just need to add some sort of alternative asset into your portfolio. I happen to think that Bitcoin will be the best, but I'm screaming from inside my echo chamber and I understand that. But I have the math to prove it. So you talked about the calendar, kind of a four-year cycle. We have next year, 2024, the halvening coming up. Around mid-April, I think, is where they're assuming that's going to be. Obviously, for people watching, the miners gets halved, the amount of Bitcoin that they get when they mine it. Historically, this is typically a good time, yes? And then kind of right after the halvening takes place? So what generally happens is you see another sort of 20-30% dip in this phase. You get sort of that extra shakeout after the lows that makes people think you're going down to the bottom. Then the halving comes, and that's another one of those buy the news, buy the dip after the, buy the rumor, buy the dip after the news events, because everybody celebrates the halving, but it takes a very long time for that slight reduction in supply to kick in. So usually, the real next bull market starts about six months after the halving. So 2020, well, I'll remember Paul Tudor Jones came out end of the summer and said that Bitcoin was the fastest horse in the race. Then Michael Saylor announced that MicroStrategy was adding Bitcoin to the balance sheet, then Tesla and Square. That was all in the fall of 2020, going into 2021. 2021 was the huge year, obviously, right? You sort of had the highs before the summer, it dipped back to 30-ish, and then a slightly higher high, the first high was 65, a second higher high, 69 towards the end of the year. And then the cycle... Back down 80% as it tends to happen, this third year in the cycle, which we're in right now, is always Bitcoin's dead, there's no volume, there's no more interest, there's no volatility, what happened, right? And then you slowly ramp up into that halving year, and by the next summer, we'll be laughing at all of this, laughing at the fact that we talked about Jerome Powell, or the macro, or inflation, or any of it, and we'll go, oh, you can look at a four-year chart of Bitcoin, and it's literally the exact same every single time. Yeah. Okay, so what about the altcoins? You know, Bitcoin's obviously breaking out. ETH hasn't done as well as of late in this recent rally. And then, you know, some of the smaller altcoins. But let's talk about ETH first, and kind of what's your view on that as kind of the number two? Welcome to the cycle. Same thing, every single time. And people will now tell you how Ethereum's dead, how there's no interest, it's a fail after the merge last year, which was supposed to be this huge fundamental event, similar to a halving kind of idea and similar to maybe an ETF approval kind of idea. And Bitcoin will be smashing Ethereum and other altcoins during these parts of the cycle. There's always this washing machine affecting crypto. Bitcoin goes up, all of the interest goes into Bitcoin, everybody panics, they sell their altcoins, a metric called Bitcoin dominance rises. Now you want Bitcoin dominance rising with Bitcoin rising. There's a horrible scenario when Bitcoin dominance rises, when Bitcoin's going down. That means that everything's going down and altcoins are going down even more. At least in this scenario, your altcoins are generally treading water or going up slightly versus dollars. They're just losing value against Bitcoin. But what will happen here, and I think it's starting to happen, if you use technical indicators, on the Ethereum Bitcoin pair, there's only been four times in history that RSI has been oversold on the weekly. It just had oversold last week. So here we are, the narratives are endless, the Bitcoin maximalists are dunking on Ethereum people, telling them it's over. You can go back to the last cycle. Ethereum had gone up to $1,400. It was sitting around $400, and I sent a tweet that lit me on fire. I said, I'm buying Ethereum at $82. And it was at $400 on the way down from $1,400. It bottomed at $80, completely filled all of my bids, and I rode it to $4,000 in the next cycle. And so it's just the cycle, man. And what's interesting is this time, right now, we are starting to see a few select altcoins with real narratives like Solana and Chainlink, really powerful coins outperforming Bitcoin. And we're seeing the entire market cap of the space go up dramatically, which means there's actually new money coming into the space. Usually, in this part of the cycle this year, like I said, it's that washing machine. People go out of altcoins into Bitcoin, they get bored with Bitcoin, they go back into altcoins, but it's the same money. We are starting to see an influx of new capital here, which is starting to get really exciting. But to be completely honest, the Bitcoin ETF will probably be huge. But if you're looking at that four-year cycle, I still expect us to be waiting until roughly a year from now to really see the huge numbers. So if you're allocating now, say there's new people out there that want to start getting in, and they're okay going to Coinbase, or another exchange, not waiting for an ETF, let's say. And of course, that ETF has to prove it's just Bitcoin. It's not like you have exposure to Solano or Chainlink or any of the other or even Ethereum. You will. Do you, normally, if you have friends and family come to you and say, hey, I want to put 1% of my portfolio in cryptos, do you tell them, hey, just to do Bitcoin, or do you say diversify across? I tell them to dollar cost average into Bitcoin, and then as they start to understand the asset class more, maybe you get a 70-30 split with Bitcoin, Ethereum, and then maybe you go to like 70-20-10 into the other things unless you're going to actively trade it and track the space. Listen, if a Bitcoin spot ETF gets approved, an Ethereum spot ETF is going to get approved because the justifications for rejecting are going to be gone, and then we'll have these same narratives for Ethereum. And then what does BlackRock do best? They create index funds, right? So we're going to get a top 10 Bitcoin, a top 10 crypto spot index fund, or a top 100, or a metaverse coin. There's going to be a million of these things down the road, and there's going to be endless ways for people to gain exposure to this asset class. But you asked me what not financial advice I give to people when they ask me, because I'm not a financial advisor. I just tell them this. If you started dollar cost averaging into Bitcoin every week, when Bitcoin was $69,000, you are way up today, way up at $35,000. And that's because Bitcoin never really spends that much time at the highs. Sadly, a lot of people fomo in and go all in on their position at those highs. That's just what creates market tops. That's why we get blow off tops and bubbles. But for most people, if you just said, hey, listen, I want to get 50 grand into Bitcoin. I bought $1,000 that day and every two weeks since, they're up 20%, 30%. I don't have the numbers in front of me. There's a site that shows it because they spent a hell of a lot more time buying it $20,000 than they ever did even above 40. And it's the power of dollar cost averaging and taking out all the emotion and all the active decision making and just passively invest. So if you want to get 1%, take that 1%, chop it up into 50 pieces and buy every Monday morning. That's how on top of my trading, the bulk of my portfolio has always been investments and I also take the guesswork out of it and passively invest into these assets. One of my favorite terms I say is it's simple, not easy. That's simple. You take every two weeks, every week, whatever it might be. It's not like we're creating some amazing equation here. We're saying just do this every two weeks, put money and you believe in it long term. I don't know if you retweeted this, Scott, or not, but I saw that Bitcoin reached a milestone in nearly 40 million wallet addresses, now profitable. Even though, like you said, we're 50% off the high, it looks like now that 80% of Bitcoin addresses are profitable at a price of $34,000 a coin. I think you retweeted that. I think that's where I got it from. But again, that just proves the point of what you just said. 100%. Yeah, 100%. It really doesn't spend that much time relative to its entire history near the highs. It rips, and it comes back down rather quickly. And most people, if you just split up the time value, most people are spending that 90% buying something. That's when they bought. 90% of the time, it's below this level. Not a surprise that people are in profit. But yeah, it's an astounding number. It's the most addresses that have ever been in profit and a huge percentage, as you said. Leaving that 20%. And the thing is, a lot of that 20%, I think they probably bought it 38, 42, 45. It's not like all 20% of them are waiting for 69,000 to sell and get even. Exactly. I think a lot of people who bought it 69,000 gave up already because they were never really in for the long term anyway. They sold it 17, right? Yeah, exactly. Now they're going to buy back in now when it's sitting here pushing into resistance and overbought again. You know as well as I do, friends and family when they start blowing up the phone, you know that's a problem in the short term. Yeah, exactly. I always joke that my aunt called me one day. She said, I've heard about this Dogecoin. Elon Musk is going to go on Saturday Night Live tomorrow night. Apparently, he's going to talk about it. It's going to pump like crazy. And Doge was like 65 cents. I'd sold mine under a penny 17 times in the cycle before. And I was like, I already thought this was a bubble, but this will be the deadest of dead tops. And that day was the 70-cent top of Doge literally forever. Those signals are really apparent. She didn't buy it. I told her not to, but yeah. Yeah, you saved it from herself right there. You saved it from herself. So just a few more minutes, Scott. All the mess that's going on geopolitically right now, it's been going on for a while. That's been kind of propping up gold a bit in the last couple of weeks. Oil has gone up. Obviously, Bitcoin has gone up. I'm not quite sure if that's why. Do you see Bitcoin as a bit of a safety haven similar to what gold has been viewed at for many years? I don't think it's there yet, but I think that that's the promise of Bitcoin. But whether you believe it or not, when you have perhaps one of the top five most powerful men on the planet, Larry Fink, going on national TV on a weekly basis and calling it a fight to quality, you better listen. And so whether it's a true narrative or whether he's talking his book because he wants a BlackRock Spot ETF approval and he wants to grab all the AUM when they inevitably approve eight or 10 of those products, or because he really believes it, listen, isn't everything just a shared belief? I mean, is gold a hedge because there's some fundamental property of gold that makes it a hedge or a flight to safety? No, it's a flight to safety because everybody shares the belief that it has been in the past, has 5,000 years of history doing so. And so they believe that it will in the future. And Bitcoin is starting to accrue some of that value, I think. So listen, it wasn't a store of value in the last cycle when it went down 85%. It didn't store your value. So it's hard to make that argument. Do I think it can be? Yes. But when you have the largest institutions in the world talking about it in that manner, I think that it starts to become self-fulfilling and that it will be. And listen, it's always about cherry picking dates. So yes, it wasn't during that cycle. But right now, as stocks have been going down and this thing's gone from 20 to 35, sure, it's been a great store of value. So it's hard to make that claim with or without a specific timeline. I'll say right now, things are looking really good. Yeah. And this kind of just reiterates the point you made of dollar cost averaging over time, because you don't know one from 20 to 35. While stocks have gone down, you were buying much lower, so you diversify your portfolio. Everything you've talked about, as far as fundamentals of how to own this wide, or this without giving financial advice, all makes sense. It all kind of comes together in the end. And again, it's pretty damn simple. We're not sitting here saying, use all these charts, trade this, go short this, leverage here, do that. No. You're consistently putting money, weight, and asset class, right? Yeah. When you have an asset that's volatile, you don't need leverage, right? So don't lose that. Yeah, especially, oh my God, people use leverage on altcoins. It's like, what, Bitcoin is not volatile enough? I know. That always scares me. We were just in Vegas for the annual conference. That's like me gambling. My odds are actually better with Blackjack than it is doing now. Way better. Way better. At least you know the odds of everything you do. Yeah, exactly. So before I let you go, I think I asked you this last time, too. We always call it the island question. Before we let somebody go, just 10 years, put you, your family, and all your Halloween costumes on an island for the next 10 years. What's the one investment asset class? I probably have an idea what it is, but what's something that you feel really confident putting money into and coming back in 10 years? At this point, I would say Bitcoin, and I think that I know that that's probably really predictable. If you said two years, I'd probably say two-year treasuries. I don't know. Oh, yeah. You really can't go wrong and make them 500% right? Get my 500% run and come back from the island to know that I'm not much poorer than when I left at least, right? Because with any other asset class, you might come back and have nothing. But I really do believe that we'll be two and a half cycles deeper into Bitcoin. I think it's trading well into the six figures. I think inflation will still be a problem. I do think that it will be storing your value. I mean, what else could you possibly buy on a 10-year horizon? I mean, listen, I think you can confidently dollar cost average into the stock market for the next 10 years. And even if we go into a great recession or depression here, that means once again, you'll be buying the lows. But it's not like I want to buy a huge basket of the large seven tech stocks right now for the next while. I think everything looks sort of toppy. So listen, I would just keep dollar cost averaging into Bitcoin and go happily live on the island. As long as I hope they take Bitcoin, I might be in trouble. I know that people will think that sounds crazy, but we've had this debate on my own shows as well. I'm pretty comfy in that asset class. If it was going to get killed, it would have gotten killed a long time ago. Exactly. So I think with the Metcalf's law, the network effects, and the just deflationary aspects of it, it's destined to at least hold its value over time versus the dollar. Well, awesome, Scott. Thanks a lot. Thanks as always. You come on here, and as smart as you are, you break it down. So a guy with a fifth grade level of Bitcoin like me can understand that. So I really appreciate you making everything really simple for everybody to understand. I have the mind of a fifth grader. I have the brain of a fifth grader, as my wife tells me often. So it's very easy for me to speak in layman's terms, and I am one. I guess that's why, yeah, the conversation flows very well. So, hey, man, thank you so much. Make sure you check out Scott. He's the wolf of all streets, and we'll have him back on soon. When Bitcoin breaks out, have it next year, we'll get you back on, Scott. But again, thanks a lot for taking your time. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Matt. Opinions expressed on this program are solely those of the contributor and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of Stansberry Research, its parent company or affiliates.