Welcome to Behind the Markets Podcast. I'm your host, Jeremy Schwartz, Global CIO at WisdomTree. Alongside Warren Fiennes Professor, Jeremy Siegel, who's also a Senior Economist for WisdomTree, we tackle the latest market trends every week. I'm also joined by my deep rooted macro colleagues, Samuel Rines, Jeff Weniger, and Chris Gannatti. Let's dive into this week's show. Well, thank you all for joining us on our second week live updates with Professor Siegel. We're going to also use this for our podcast, Behind the Markets, with your regular listeners there. We're going to use the same conversation there, but we'll also do a little post office hours recap with some of our team as well to give our take on all that you heard and a little bit more. But Professor, so much going on. We'd love to take it off just with your views. What's your latest on all the volatility that we have this week? Yeah. You hear all the news broadcasts. They start out. There's been a lot of volatility. That's like saying the sun rises in the east and sets in the west. No information there. All right. Let's talk about what's going on in the last 24 hours. Well, first of all, the market is almost up 2 percent. Why? Today. Couple reasons. One is that the Financial Times reported that one of the FOMC members said, yes, we're definitely ready to support the economy if the tariffs tank the economy. There's some comfort that's taken in that. I think a lot of shorts got scared of coming into the market. After what happened Wednesday, it could happen at any time. It's like you don't want to short a meme stock, you don't want to start the market when Trump can tweet anything at any second and cause a huge rally in stocks. Now, what's really important is the big, I'm not going to call it crash, you could call it the crash of the dollar and the bond almost on that, but crash is a real strong word. I mean, it's been an orderly, it's been a fast but an orderly retreat. I think the long bond, which just two hours ago hit 460, which is hard to believe for a long bond that a week ago was under four. But now it's retreated as the stock market has recovered and Com has recovered down to 447 and the 13 basis point dropped just in the last two hours. I think that there are two reasons for that. I think the main reason is really the world is beginning to question the dominance of the US as a world reserve currency. And whether the US is going to be the leading economic growth engine into the future. And so some people are worrying about whether they should be holding US government bonds. Foreigners do hold one third of our national debt, which is over $10 trillion. There's always the threat if there's further retaliation, that China could unload some of its bonds, or persuade others to unload some of its bonds. That's one source of the rise. The other source of the rise in the bond yield, in my opinion, is the fact that the House passed the budget of Trump, which does really increase the deficits. That is a worry going forward. And, of course, the deficits will increase even more if there's a recession. So you have a double whammy on the deficit. So you have a lot of supply coming on. We are still far from, by the way, the tax cut being passed. These are all procedurals to set it up. What finally goes into that is yet to be determined. Nonetheless, that does set up for a big increase in deficits. And it does, if there's a recession, then there'll be another $2 to $3 trillion. $2 trillion there. Also the rise in the long bond sort of makes it more difficult for the Fed to lower rates. I mean, it was easier to argue to lower rates when the curve was inverted as it was for three months. The Fed funds rate is 3.33. So when it went below three, we had an inversion. Now, we don't have an inversion anymore. At the long bond of 4.47, the Fed funds 3. Now, it's still pretty flat, but not an inversion. That's a little less likely the Fed will lower under those circumstances that we had again news earlier today that said the Fed might ignore that rise in the long bond and cause that to lower anyway. I mean, that is in the future. I mean, the main thing that is driving, I think, the markets, I would say, the bonds and the dower is the sentiment surrounding whether Trump will negotiate with China or not, to what extent on lowering tariffs that are now virtually now an embargo where trade is virtually now halted. Now, there are ways around it, as you know. You can warehouse it. You can stop ships in the middle of the ocean. You can finish things in another country and try to get it in that way. I mean, I'm not going to go into all those strategies, but you know, that is huge. You had a mutual embargo by both China and the US. Virtually a mutual embargo between that is a huge shock to the world trading system. We saw this morning, now, the inflation data has been good. That gives an excuse for the Fed to go, most certainly favorable. But as you all know, the tariffs news has again increased inflationary expectations in the latest University of Michigan survey. By the way, forward sentiment in the University of Michigan survey is almost hit an all-time low. That is not good for spending. Now, we're not going to see it in the official data. There is really very little in the official data that shows a slowdown in the economic activity. Nonetheless, the sentiment indicators have rarely been as negative as they are. The reason, in a lot of advanced buying ahead of the tariffs, so you're not going to, you know, GDP and sales might still be good for several weeks, but it's not going to last under these circumstances. You know, will iPhones be available? Well, I mean, they will be available on the secondary market, maybe at $2,000, $3,000. Will Apple actually stop selling them because the tariff is so higher? I mean, these are a lot of unknowns going forward. Everyone's trying to think that through. But in the meantime, they're hoping that the pressure of CEOs and others calling in, saying, you know, what a disaster this is, which of course, as you know, I've been calling it a disaster now for eight weeks, whether they could persuade a problem. There was actually disturbance in the bond market that was one of the factors that prompted Trump to postpone the reciprocal tariffs. As you know, is when does a sparking and a near record stock market rally? But they're waiting for the negotiation on China. That's still there. And by the way, the 10 percent tariff seems pretty permanent. I mean, he's not talking about negotiating that away. There's a little question about that. So, that's sort of there, a national sales tax on the imports that is there. But, you know, all this is, is, is, you know, swirling around. You could be surprised at the start. You know, the S&P is not even in a bear market territory at all, although definitely in a correction territory at this particular juncture. But I think it's who will, who can hold out longer? I think China can hold out a long time. I think even though their economy be hurt, if you know that Chinese psychology, I mean, they can go through austerity. Americans are not used to austerity. And we really have not had real austerity since World War II. China has had austerity in many times subsequent to that. And they are pretty much behind Xi at this particular point. So they can hold out on a bigger slump than we can if it comes to that. But I think political pressure will become so strong that Trump will be forced to negotiate. Of course, he's gonna roll out some agreements. There are several agreements that have already been all but signed as saying his policy is a success. But that's the off-ramp. I mean, the agreements, he's making agreements. Seventy-five supposed people have called him to make agreements. That's his off-ramp of getting out of this particular situation. But as long as the tariffs are in place at this particular level, I see no upside to the US. Markets. And even if they are taken off, it is hard for me to see them going back to the all-time highs that were reached in February. I mean, I think the tariffs and the way it was going about and the shocks does really hurt the brand of US. Made in USA, not irreparably and not so that it crashes the stock market or anything, but it could be worth 5 to 10 percent as a very lingering longer-term impact on the economy from where it would be otherwise. People who are going to reform alliances, China could become much stronger instead of weaker as a result. We will see. But the expectation of the market otherwise it would be 15 percent lower than it is right now is that Trump as he caved in to the reciprocal tariffs will also cave in to the China tariffs. Now, he won't call it a cave in, he'll call it a mutual negotiation. Of course, he'll call it a success no matter what happens. But I think the market is basically calling on that. As far as what type of stocks to do well, I mean, they're all going down about the same. I mean, S&P is down 167, Nasdaq 184 Dow, which is a little bit more cyclical and value-oriented 157. I mean, they're up all up today. They've been moving pretty much in tangent with the Nasdaq being, probably showing a 1.2, 1.3 beta on that and it's amplifying it a little bit more. The goal has been very strong and if you notice Bitcoin is up 5% today. There is and I think I know why Bitcoin is up 5% today and that is if the dollar loses its international status and again, we're talking about going from 67% of the world reserves may down to 57%. It's not like it's going to go to zero. But Bitcoin has been talked about, about some countries may want to replace their dollars with Bitcoin. I think that's one reason why Bitcoin is up today. Otherwise, it trades like a NASDAQ stock. But the reason why it's 84,000 virtually today and not probably lower, is some talk about, you know, maybe reserves will now be partly more likely to shift to Bitcoin as well as Euros and some other things. So I have a sense on that. I mean, oil is up to two and a half percent. When the stock market is up, oil is up because if there's going to, if there isn't, if there isn't going to be a recession, oil is up. If there is going to be a recession, oil is down. Let me talk about the inflation news again is good. It gives an excuse for the Fed to reduce if it wants to. This is that's that was really good news. What was the producer price index on the consumer? However, one should note that the good news on the consumer price index was to some extent, I saw the components a big four and a half percent drop in airline prices because airlines are feeling the impact right away. International travel is down. I mean, that's one of the first signs that we really have hard data on. And that is that is down. So some of those components are down because of some drop off in demand. But nonetheless, this is this is good news going forward on the price front. It's going to lower the the core rate of report at the end of the month. But let's let's the facts are that the tariff negotiation number one foremost. The second one is signs of drop in spending. And that's going to take a while in the official statistics to show up. And to what extent it shows up is critical. So, you know, and what's going on in the international markets? I mean, you know, it's it's 448 right now on the 10 year. I, you know, I can't predict it on what it is. I mean, if we are going to recession should be under 4. But down with a deficit that is likely to be in the neighborhood of three, four trillion dollars looking into the future and more if there's a recession and and the question of the dollars reserve currency, I can certainly understand why it went towards 460 today. In my opinion, no market, there is probably thinness in some of these markets, but none are disorderly. They're all, all the markets are functioning well. I don't see any, you know, you know, you know, that failed auctions, which was a sort of ridiculous notion that was floated a couple days ago. And, you know, we're not having any fail. It's just a question of price and what you're going to buy it at. I mean, the markets are perfectly absorbing all of this. They absorbed the tweet on Wednesday with a rise. So, I mean, markets are absolutely functioning. There's no failure of the markets. It's just a constant reassessment of the, for equities, the profits going forward, the potential depths of the recession and what that means for margins going forward. For bonds, they now have not only the business cycle to worry about, but the status of the dollar and then the international reserve system is also a factor, as well as what's going to happen to the dollar. Now, by the way, that's, I'm going to end with the talk on the dollar and then we can take questions, and then that's, you know, Kevin or Sam, Jeremy wanted to speak any more. The drop in the dollar increases in the inflation that Americans will see on top of the tariffs that Trump has put in place. It is good for our exporters. It's good for profits. I mean, you know, a drop 2%, 3%, 4% will increase the dollar value of the 41% of the revenues that are brought abroad or earnings that are brought from abroad. That's a big positive. By the way, why I don't want to call about the dollar collapsing is that we had a big rise in the dollar after Trump was elected. So you know, yes, it's given that back and maybe a little bit more, but it is not out of line with the range of the dollar over the last five years. It's not like, my God, we're at a 20 year low in the dollar or anything like that. So, yeah, people like to talk about, oh, collapse of the dollar, no confidence. Well, you know, dollar is not that, I mean, it was down 1% earlier and today, the Dixie is down, you know, two thirds of a percent now. You know, it's not so it's back to where it was, you know, last year, all the basically all the Trump excitement that sent the dollar higher has disappeared. So I've covered all the markets, I think, or many of them. And if, you know, I'm awaiting any further questions that you guys might have. Before we go to the Q&A box that's in the chat here, and we've gotten about a bunch of questions coming in. Maybe I can just get Sam and Kevin to each give like two minutes of commentary. Sam, this all this geopolitical stuff, you're managing some models that tries to take into this sense of what's happening. Any comments from what you heard from the professor, how you're looking at the world today? Yeah, I think it's a pretty interesting time to be in markets. You know, one of the things that we did earlier this week was we put on a trade from the geopolitically risk aware portfolios, where we began to buy some of the emerging markets kind of across the board and using some commodity exposure to do so, not necessarily because we didn't like the commodity exposure longer term, but simply because near term, the emerging markets appeared to have a much better outlook, particularly when you account for the dollar, the potential for negotiations to go particularly well, particularly when it comes to allies for the United States in Asia and elsewhere on the emerging market front and even the developed market front to a certain degree. But generally, I would say markets have behaved relatively well when you look at the way some of the currencies have traded, some of the bonds have traded, equities have traded, etc. It's been fairly orderly. We would expect that you're going to see a calm down on the China front at some point, but that is going to take some time. It's not as easy as just answering the phone. Then moving on from there, it's likely to be several phone calls. But from here, it's hard to see exactly how you get it much worse. China has said, we're not going to bother increasing our tariffs against the US because it's a joke at this point. It's hard to see a lot of the news becoming any more negative from here. You're likely to continue to see bleed out at some positivity, etc. You have a lot of stimulus outside of the US. The US is running a decent deficit. China is beginning to stimulate. Europe has certainly stimulated, particularly on the defense and infrastructure front. There's a number of things that could be positive. Even India is beginning to stimulate, which is also interesting. Some of the largest economies in the world beginning to stimulate even prior to the tariffs. On the margin, it could be an interesting time to begin to nibble, particularly at some of those places that maybe are significantly underway and worth a visit at the moment. I think for me, the key takeaway from the professor's remarks was the functioning of the markets. From my vantage point, the money and bond markets, the funding markets, and looking at the various measures there, and there's been some modest tightening in some of the funding markets, but it's nowhere near pointing towards anything worrisome at this stage of the game. If you look at commercial paper, financial, non-financial commercial paper, spreads versus T-bills, they're still relatively on the low side and so far below anything that we've seen in any of the related crises over the last 10 or 15 years. Even if the bond market, as you're supporting some of the notions there, what caused the sell-off? Remember, the sell-off didn't occur in the entire bond market. It was more centered, intermediate, longer-dated maturities. Up until today's trading, the front end of the treasury market was actually in the green for the most part, and you got a significant actually steepening of the curve between twos and tens. If you look at treasury floating rate notes, something that we've talked about as a high conviction trade, they're doing exactly what they've been designed to do. They're just moving in a nice flat fashion, stable as she goes going forward here. People asking a lot of questions on this, what was some of the results? You could come up with many. We're probably not going to know. This is going to be something we're going to probably find out after the fact. What was really behind this violent move? If you think about it, Professor, you mentioned it. You went from 386 Monday morning while we were all sleeping to about 460 today. Something's going on there. Were we unwinding trades, the unwinding of the basis trade everyone likes to talk about? Were people looking at perhaps selling to raise cash, maybe moving money into their home markets? You've seen the German Bund market actually outperforming treasuries here. But I think it's premature to suggest that treasuries are going to go away and then all of a sudden, people are going to look to where? To where? What's going to be the alternative? The EU, the German bond market, the Japanese bond market? I think you need to get some perspective when we're talking about this. With respect to the Fed, we've been down these roads before. We have their balance sheet, the facilities that they've used in the financial crisis. During COVID in 2019, when there were hiccups in the funding market. Remember, they're still doing quantitative tightening right now. They reduced the pace for treasuries, but they're still unwinding on the mortgage back side and a little bit on the treasury side. They could stop that altogether. They could come back and give you QE like they did in 2019, which was not economic or dual mandate related. It was funding market related. So the Fed has a lot of tools at their disposal, and I think cooler heads will eventually prevail. We've been down these roads before. And the one difference with all of this is that we are speaking about tariffs and seeing tariffs like we not witnessed in our lifetime for the most part. And I think that's what's got people up in arms right now. But this volatility to begin as you open, Professor, the understatement of the decade, of the millennium, the uncertainty quotients where we are right now, this has to play out. It's going to be a fluid event. Our advice is don't get caught up in all the headlines. The social media, the tweets that are flying out there. Just try to sit back, look at things from a broader perspective, from a more strategic kind of investment backdrop. I mean, Jare and Jare, Professor and Jeremy Schwartz, what's the title of your book called? I think people, we need to start thinking about things from that perspective. Professor, I guess the question comes, sorry, we say Stocks for the Long Run, there's this question of which Stocks for the Long Run, you talked a little bit about the US exceptionalism narrative cracking. How are you thinking about your long-term returns from the US versus foreign markets today? Well, I think foreign markets are looking more attractive right now. I mean, we're still, what were 14, 13, 14, 15 PE in Europe, rest of the world. We were up here in the low 20s, and of course, the Mag-7 were in the 30s. So the valuation, remember, in the valuation of long run is more important than the earnings growth. And, you know, it looks to me good. I mean, you know, a 15 PE stock, even with very little growth, is giving you a 6% to 7% real rate of return, which is pretty good. So what's the US PE ratio? Of course, if there's a recession, you know, the earnings could go down dramatically, but we have to look at long term and above that. And so what we've gone down to 20 on, you know, on 21, 22 on last year. I mean, if it goes up to 250, we're at 5,000. We're 5,300 right now in the S&P. So, you know, that's if there's, you know, very, very little growth. And if there's a recession, not only will it be very low growth, there'll be a decline in earnings. However, remember what I said, I said this last week and the week before. A lot of people say, oh, put 16 on a decline in earnings. That's always crazy. Really, you should put 22 to 24 on a recession level earnings. There is also no question in my mind, and I'll just repeat what I said for three consecutive weeks. If there's a recession and there will be one, if these tariffs continue, then lower stock prices are in almost certainty, period. I mean, the average recession stock prices drop by 25 percent and we're only 15 down. Doesn't mean it's not, you know, I'm not betting my life on it. There's all sorts of things that can happen. You know, decline in the dollar makes the foreign earnings look better. There's a lot of things going on. If the Fed starts lowering rates, that that will, of course, have some boost too. But nonetheless, if we're going to now, Trump changes and turns everything around. And it is with China, the 10 percent tariff in and of itself. I don't think that alone could cause a recession. There's where sentiment plays, most importantly, how shocked are people into saving as a result of the higher prices and the economic uncertainty. And we don't know the answer to that. It was advanced buying. These very people that may have goose the economy upward over the last four weeks, are going to be the ones that are going to be the big savers in the next four months. And that is not good for consumption and not good for corporate profits. Jar, we got a question from Roger. I just wanted to address this because I think it's important. There is a lot of noise out there right now. The question was, do we agree with Boston Fed President Collins that there is no liquidity issue in the treasury market? And yes, we do agree with that. It gets back to what I was saying before, looking at some of the measures, SOFR, looking at the repo markets, functioning very, very well here. As I said, are spreads moving a little bit? Yeah, they are. It's to be expected, I think, when you see this kind of movement and volatility in the market. But there's no liquidity issues at this stage of the game. You have off-the-run and on-the-run treasuries. Just to go a little bit into the weeds here, the on-the-runs are what was just recently auctioned, just like this week. Perfect example, we had a disappointing three-year note auction. Everyone was concerned what was going to happen to the 10-year and the 30-year reopening. They were met with pretty good demand. That's another, I think, important aspect. Listen to what people do, not what they say. What do they do? They came in and they bid for the 10-year, they bid for the 30-year, and it wasn't just primary dealer driven. I think the other aspect to this as well is that off the runs, those were the issues that were auctioned a couple of years ago. It's an old 10-year note, it's an old five-year note. Those are always going to have a little bit less of a spark to them than an on-the-run issue. But overall, yes, we would agree that the munchions to markets are functioning properly. Professor, do you want to add on to that? Yeah. I was going to say I agree 100% with Kevin. They're functioning very well. There was a question from Alyssa that came in, and this somewhat ties into the move in the dollar, the move in the bond market. There's been a lot of questions like, is China selling bonds and then what do they buy? That's one related question. But also on the foreign ownership of our assets, sort of comment on foreign ownership of equities rotating around the world, is that something that you think is happening because of that US loss of exceptionalism comment that you made? Yeah. I mean, whether US is not the rational economic decision maker anymore, not going to be the linchpin of world trade, if there's a shift in that, you're going to see a decline in the dollar and you're going to see a decline in bond prices. Is China? We don't know. I have no information about whether China has all these subsidiaries, whether it has been selling or not, but just the fear that China will sell in the future will drive the prices down. I mean, even a primary dealer say, oh my goodness, I think China might be selling in the future, the price goes down. All asset prices are anticipatory. So we don't have to see them sell and it's a threat that they'll sell. Maybe that's the next step of our trade war is, you do this, we'll sell the treasuries. I mean, you know, Trump keeps on referring to who has the most cards. When you negotiate with Zelensky, you don't have any cards. You know, I think that China has some cards. So does Trump, but China has some good cards. And if they want to play them, they could. There's a lot that is held in reserve. And so we'll see how long that game goes on. Sam, there was a related question on moving away from the US but the MAG-7 and valuations. And I know in your models, you have some heavy tilts towards high dividends. There has been, when we look at within recently, maybe things are going down together. But year to date, sort of high dividend stocks are down about 5 percent. Growth stocks are down 15. So, there's definitely been a dividend outperformance. And maybe Sam, Professor, you could both comment on that. Like if you expect some of that to continue with the volatility. Yeah, I expect it. I mean, well, let me go. I'll go first. I'll leave it to Sam. I expect that to continue. The trend line on, I mean, the news on tech. I mean, you know, who is it? Dan Ives, a big tech guy. He was on CNBC a couple of days ago at about 530 in the morning. I was listening to him. He's usually extremely bullish. And he said, listen, you know, tech goes through China. He's not talking only about tech innovation, talking about tech production, a lot of other stuff. He said, you disrupt the China chain, you disrupt that. And you also spur on China to be the AI leader. Okay, if this is a war, we're going to put all resources in AI. We're going to win this war. Intellectual. I mean, better an intellectual war than the shooting war, to say the least. But the resources are going there. And who knows? Okay, the iPhone's not produced. We'll make sure Samsung, well, that's not their country, or Huawei, maybe that is. We'll flood the market with those. We'll sell to Europe. I mean, we'll get everything up. You know, we can dump all of that. You know, who knows? Europe might want to buy our chips, our data centers and all that. There's always that threat there. So, I, you know, and then we'll develop AI at a price that's 10% the price that NVIDIA and the others are producing. And, you know, your lead will dissipate and disappear. I'm not saying that's going to happen. I'm just saying all these scenarios have got to be in the back of your mind when you hold those stocks. And that's why those stocks have gone down more. And that question, I think, is heightened as a result of the trade war, not lessened as a result. Sam, do you want to chime in on this? Sure. So, I think one of the main reasons why you've seen, particularly US high-dividend and dividend-paying stocks have performed broadly is they're simply not exposed to tariffs in a meaningful way relative to the rest of the market, whether it's the S&P 500, the Qs, you know, it just doesn't matter, right? They're just, they're far less exposed. They tend to be much more domestic-oriented, both in their production and their sales structures, and or just not that exposed to China in particular, right? They may be exposed to global revenues, but it's certainly not China, and not, to a significant extent, the, I call it the supply chain out of China. A lot of those dividend payers have, in particular, spent a lot of the last few years making sure that their supply chains were rather resilient. I mean, there was an interesting conference call earlier this week with Lovesac, which makes interesting couches, etc. And while they were doing their earnings conference call, the CEO was in China moving the supply chain out of China. They had 10% exposure to China. They had significantly reduced it over the last few years. And he was there to make sure that by the end of the year, they were pretty much out of there. So I do think that the US businesses across the board that were paying attention during the first Trump administration, then during COVID, then during the supply chain disruption in Ukraine, Russia, have done a very good job of mitigating a lot of the issues that, you know, we call it six, seven, eight years ago would have been far, far more punishing. And if they haven't, they kind of deserve what they're getting at this point. I mean, you had a lot of warning that this type of global break was probably in the cards. So the companies that have done it are being rewarded, and the companies that haven't are getting punished. I think that Apple and some of the other tech companies, broadly speaking, are, you know, probably the best examples of that. Kevin, there's a few questions on the bond side. One was on munis. Somebody asked about munis trading badly, and then a second was on corporate bankruptcies on the credit side or just more issues in credit. You want to comment on either of those and how we might think about those? Yeah, munis have been, obviously, they do follow trends in the treasury market, not necessarily one for one, but considering to be more of an interest rather than credit-sensitive type of interest unless, of course, there's some headlines on the state or local basis upon which the bonds were issued and or essential services. But I think overall, what you saw in munis up until, say, the tariff announcement was traditional. We were seeing more supply heading into tax season. You tend to get a lot of muni buyers liquidating munis to raise cash. In our opinion, I think any cheapening in munis here, you look at it relative value to treasuries. We were actually joking about this before we came on. I think it represents a buying opportunity. Always remember that you can talk about this from at least a minimum, a federal tax equivalent type of level of what you may be getting overall on an absolute basis then adjust it for your federal income tax, if not your state income tax. Oftentimes, you're above treasuries. You may be in investment corporate land. With respect to corporates, we have seen spreads widen out here. To me, I think it's actually a healthy development. I think spreads were too narrow. We were at really the fringes on a historical basis for both investment grade and high yield spreads. So I think it's a healthy development when you get this kind of correction. Obviously, you don't want to see it in just three or four trading sessions. But I think overall, you don't have default rate expectations risen, maybe very, very modestly, but not to the point where you're talking about upper single digits, lower double digits, nothing along those lines. Senior loans would be an area I think I'd be more wary of. So if you were to ask me to rate where I would be in credit, senior loans would probably be at the bottom of the list of what I just mentioned. I also want to mention, as many of you know, one proposal in the Trump tax plan is to raise back the upper tax rate from his lowering 36% in the 2017 tax plan back to the old Obama rate of I think 39.6, which would make Munis more attractive. Absolutely. Because there are a few people, one institutional investor who's thinking very long term, there's other people saying, how are you thinking about the long term nature? What do you do from this, from a long term perspective? How are you thinking through that? So Trump will be president for three and a half more years, and then we'll have a new president. It's not forever, nor is any of the... We know that since tariffs can be implemented by executive order, they could be taken off on day one of a new president by executive order, although I think they'll be taken off in large part much, much before that. So this is something that, you know, I said I remember, I think last week, but I will repeat, at 20 price earnings ratio, only 10% of the value of a stock comes from its earnings in the next two years. That's very important. If you wipe out the earnings of a company for two years and then get it back on track after that, the stock theoretically should go down only 10%, no more. If you wipe out earnings by 50% for four years, and that would be the remaining part of the Trump presidency, 50%, no one's predicting that sort of decline in most, it also will only go down by 10%. So are stocks still good for the long run? Absolutely. In my opinion, in my opinion, the longer term returns, not necessarily the shorter term, but the longer term returns are more attractive now than they were on February 9th when the stock market was at its all-time high. Jerry, I thought an interesting question. I'm going to pose one to you. You haven't gotten one in a while here. Question came in, what do we think about the traditional 60-40? There's somebody out there, I'll keep them nameless for now, is suggesting 50-50-20 with 20 being allocated in alternative investments. So what are our thoughts about that? Yeah, you see, well, sure, there's a lot of indexing to these alternatives because there's not as much volatility or at least perceived volatility. They don't get marked on a daily basis. So we know a lot of our RAs are using a lot of alternatives just to help for clients who don't like to see the daily statements. There's some value to that. Some people call it volatility laundering because there really is volatility underlying it, but you don't see it. But so there's definitely more use of that and there's definitely some higher returns in some of those segments and in some of those lending. There's going to be a lot of money going into private credit and other places. But we do see the motivation. I mean, the bond yields have risen, but still when somebody just asked about the equity risk premium, you're getting towards 3 percent. Again, we got down as low as 2 percent, but the 10-year tips versus the earnings yield, you're getting closer to 3. But still, it's only a little bit above 2 on the 10-year tip. So it's not a huge, huge return from traditional bonds. And so people are looking at other forms of lending to try to increase the yields you get in traditional income. People like companies are staying private for longer, so they're trying to do other versions of private equity or late stage venture, all these things to try to increase the return profile. We've done a lot of things with what we call capital fishing core families that puts like a 90-60 framework for stocks and bonds that creates more room for alternatives. We also do something with gold. The professor talks about gold not having very strong long-term real returns, but certainly in this environment, they've gone up a lot. I think the big question is from the Siegel world view of only sub 1% real return, is where do you fund it from, given that it's get this low long-term return, with our capital fishing core where you add gold on top of equities, you don't have to sell equities to do that. I think that's one of the things that we see. How do you get more alternatives in without sacrificing your core allocation? That's something we're trying to do a lot more with. But you also understand why people are saying low returns in bonds gives you more opportunities in some of these other private markets. Yeah, let me follow up and I agree with Jeremy. So right at this instance, you get 4.49 percent on the 10-year. Do you think that's attractive with the amount of deficits, with the tariffs bringing inflation up? This is the nominal. I'm not looking at tips. I'm just looking at the nominal bond because that's 90 percent of the government debt is not inflation protected, more than that. So you can lock your money up for 4.48. You can buy a stock at 15 or 20 PE., which is a 5 percent return on inflation protected capital. And the only thing that's similar, as Jeremy mentioned, the tips rate, yes, had gone up and now it's 2.28. You know, a 20 PE stock is a 5. So, you know, that's almost a 3 percent premium. I mean, well, 2.28 to 5, it's a little bit lower than, you know, than 3 right now at 20. But that's still very healthy, right? For someone who's long term, 3 percent a year difference in two asset classes over 30 years is a big, big difference. So again, you know, and I'll tell you, the behavior of the long bond over the last, you know, three or four days, how good a hedge is it? I mean, it is shocking. I mean, that, you know, I mean, normally it's a fantastic short term hedge, you know, day by day, you know, stock market's tanking on a thousand points, your treasuries are up. You know, if that doesn't happen, a lot of people say, hey, I don't want it. I want that cushion. That's a strike against the bond in terms of that segment of the investing population that loves the short-term volatility hedge. And as we've all said, bonds are a terrible long-term volatility hedge against any inflation, which I do think is, you know, the big question mark going forward. So with that, Professor, I think we've, I think we're running out of time, but I think we, for sure, with all this volatility, you can expect us to do more of these calls with the Professor. You could always hear him on Behind the Markets, like people are listening today. We'll get it on Behind the Markets as well. But I could see us doing more of these calls on a regular basis with all the moves that we're getting in the market. So Professor, thanks for doing this with us. Thanks, everybody, for tuning in. Kevin and Sam, always a pleasure to be with you. Thanks for joining us. And we'll talk to you again pretty soon. Have a good weekend, guys. Have a great one. We're going to continue the conversation in this after-hours trading session of Behind the Markets. We've got Kevin Flanagan, Chris Gannatti, Jeff Weniger to recap what we heard from the professor on today's office hours, as well as just give some more of our own thoughts of what's happening across the world. Jeff, it's been a while since you were on Behind the Markets. We miss you here, man. What's been going on? We've been on the road doing climate calls and stuff. Finally caught a time to record. Yeah. You've been writing about 15 reasons to be bullish. The professor has been a little grisly on all the stuff that's going on with the tariffs and worried about a recession. If things continue with the tariffs, maybe we can start with you since you've been a while since you've been here. Give us your high-level world view, how you're reacting to all this and some of your reasons for being bullish. Yeah. One of the things that we, when we're putting out the 15 reasons, some of those 15 reasons have disappeared. When I originally wrote that. Past and Furious Markets. It feels like it was two minutes ago, we had a mortgage rate that was about six and five-eighths in this country. Of course, now the bond market has decided to upset the apple cart. Now you're north of seven again on a mortgage. Any illusions that I may have had about a refi boom or greasing the wheels of the housing market probably dissipated in the last seven to 14 days. Thanks, Jeremy, that have appeared inside the last few weeks. I mean, I don't think I'm the only one that's been talking about the percentage of bearish respondents in the AAII survey. The survey from this week was second only in order of magnitude for anybody's memory. To the survey from last week, which was even grizzlier, where something like 61 or 62 percent of the American Association of Individual Investors, respondents said they were bearish. And guys, that is akin to response rates on the week right after September 11th, the October 2008 type environment where we were writing about, when we're witnessing in our newspapers, people throwing bricks through the Wachovia ATM vestibule windows, if you remember that from the GFC. And then of course, also the third week of March 2020, which is the COVID bottom. So that's one of the things to be bullish, is that Jeremy, if you are bullish, you're like the only person on planet earth. And usually, when you have these types of sentiment extremes like this, you can throw all the other metrics out the window. It's almost a close your eyes and go long situation. So you want to go through some of the, you know, your long run? You got, so you got the, yeah, which is a key thing. Why don't we go through some of the ones you think are most prescient from what's going on on your list? Well, we were running a study and remember that the Monday, on Monday, when it was kind of like all the countries in the world were going to get the big tariff, the VIX got north of 60. The VIX volatility index hit 60. And we did an old back test. And as we're talking, the VIX is back to 39. But you guys know, a VIX at 39 is still a very panicky type situation on any vol metric in this market. We went back and we found 13 episodes since the inception of the VIX back in 1990. 13 times the VIX got north of 40. And again, it hit 60 this time around. And in 10 of those 13, the subsequent year witnessed gains in stocks. The three of the 13 where it was not gains, it wasn't so bad. Two that were down 1% or 2% and one that was down 15%. But the median was like 25% because you had such rip roaring rallies off of these panicky type situations. Remember at the worst of it, the S&P was what from 6100 down to 4900, I think. Maybe we even got 4800 the other day. So that was a pretty nasty waterfall. Akin to perhaps the old Grexit scare in the summer of 11. Certainly akin to the six weeks of COVID. And look, you get long on March 23rd, 2020. Things aren't so half bad for you in the rest of 20 and into 21. Some of the other things we've been talking about, and I know Kevin Flanagan that we've been talking about this one. Yes, the Fed's balance sheet has been unwinding. It's a tightening. It's not good. It doesn't help risk assets. But that's not the only central bank on planet Earth. The PBOC, Central Bank of China, has been expanding its balance sheet because it had no choice. I mean, the economy over there has been in a deflationary spiral ever since the housing market peaked four years ago. They've been expanding QE. There's a trillion dollar expansion in that balance sheet. And critically, as the Chinese go to seemingly inflate themselves out of it, there is a real possibility now that we have situations like the VIXIT 39, now that we have situations like both the stock and bond market clearly upset, that maybe the QT here domestically in the United States stops happening, and the balance sheet can stabilize here, which leaves the Chinese to get us out of this. I don't know, Jeremy, I got a bunch more. You want me to keep rolling or what? Well, let's preempt Kevin for a second. Kevin, a lot of these questions on bonds, there's a lot of speculation this week about what was blowing up the bond market, if the China is selling, the space is trading, unwinding. What's your reaction to all that in terms of the single factor? Do you have a view on if there is a single factor, there's a combination of factors? Any more color? Yeah, I was on a bond trading floor for a number of years. I know Jeff likes to try to give me the exact years on there to try to date me, but let's just say a number of years. Usually, when you see the kind of movement that we saw, well, it's a confluence of factors, right? There wasn't one headline. There wasn't one thing out there you can really point to. And we may have to play a little Monday morning quarterback eventually and say, okay, this is what happened on April 8th or something like that. But first of all, you have the unwinding of what was very powerful in the beginning, the flight to quality trade. Remember, when the Liberation Day actually occurred and when we went into trading earlier in this week, the tenure got down to 386. That was like a 50 basis point drop, right? So yeah, its traditional role as a flight to quality haven held out for a little while. And then you get the reversal of that. You have bets put on expecting that to continue to raise, perhaps to continue to go maybe down to three and a half. Maybe it is the basis trade where you're trading, you know, what's in the market now versus futures or swap spreads, not to get too technical. And these things then have to get unwound. So it kind of starts to snowball in that kind of respect. And just some selling for outright cash. I've heard a lot of anecdotes about that, you know, talking about people in the markets that, you know, margin calls, things along those lines, people needed to raise cash, or maybe they just wanted to raise cash. So I think it was a confluence of factors that came together. We won't know if it was China, probably for a couple of months. The numbers we get from the Treasury Department come with a one-month lag. So even the numbers that's called the ticks data, and when we get that in a week or so, that's going to be for the month of March. So we won't know what April showed. But what I would tend to suggest was, and we were kind of touching about this with the professor, and some comments were coming in that I thought was interesting. One, no matter what's occurring, we're still running somewhere like a $3 to $350 billion trade deficit with China. What are they going to do with these dollars? What are they going to do if they sell Treasuries? Where are these Treasuries going? Where are these dollars going? I think they're very valid points. When you're sitting on the amount of Treasuries they're sitting on, you can't sell enough. What would happen? Think of your own portfolio. It's like cutting your nose off despite your face. So you need to think about these things. I would argue that that was probably at the bottom of my list of probabilities, but money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, perhaps money moving to some other areas, That's not without question either, but I go start with the first three factors that I mentioned. Chris, let's bring you in. One of Jeff's, when I look at his list of his 15 reasons from, not even a few, basically a week ago actually. One of them was the invent of AI in corporate capacity, the ushers in labor, saving narrative that offsets the inflationary fears enabling the central bank policy accommodations. Chris, AI continues to be a theme. I think some of these tech stocks have become more value-like, but there's definitely a lot of questions on these tech stocks. Each one has their own idiosyncratic story, but any things you're focused on, AI narratives, things that you're watching? Yeah. One of the ones that I know a year ago, we were talking a lot about in a positive way, and in more recent times, we're talking about in a very negative way is the Apple story. Last year, they were coming out with their answer to artificial intelligence, which was Apple intelligence. They're coming out with the iPhone 16, which didn't sell all that well before even all this noise that we're hearing on the terror front. Now, they've got some issues in terms of their exposure to where that ubiquitous device is ultimately made and going to be made, because a lot of the things they get discussed, even if they said, yeah, we're going to manufacture iPhone somewhere else, it's not like you snap your fingers and suddenly they're manufactured somewhere else. It's a years long process of capital spending and development and supply chain adjustment that needs to go through. The AI story in terms of what companies are doing, there was just a report that came out, one of my favorite reports of the year. Been going through it, it's 450 plus pages, but it's called the Stanford AI Index Report, which goes into the economics of AI, the performance of AI, the productivity and ways in which companies and science and all these different areas are being improved by AI. All of that stuff is still there. But if people were basically saying, what's one thing we can keep our eye on in the coming weeks? Because all the big companies are going to do that next round, that dance that we all do on a quarterly basis, talking about the first quarter results. The key thing that I'll be looking at is, if there's any shift in the language around the capital spending, because we've had this increase year to year to year, and this year, I think, was supposed to be over $300 billion in total capital spending. But obviously, that's not completely risk-free. These are businesses. Many of them have a lot of cash flows, and you wouldn't expect that to go to zero. But if there's no increase relative to last year, which was, say, $260, $270 billion, or if it's down a bit, but still in the hundreds of billions, that number has been a key driver of NVIDIA's earnings. That's been a key driver of the resourcing and the excitement around AI. And so if those numbers change in any way, it could be a big deal. And the professor was citing a commentator that we've spoken to before, Dan Ives, saying that Dan Ives was not necessarily at his most bullish posture, which almost makes me fall out of the chair, because to see Dan Ives not at his most bullish posture, if anyone follows Dan Ives in the tech sector, it's a rare thing. So in the long run, could be a buying opportunity, but for the time being, could be quite volatile in these names. Jeff, you know, one of the headlines, you know, you talk so much China, and then you've got the tariffs as a big part of it. Apple is, it's interesting. Some of the headlines I saw was that, can Apple get an exemption given how much of their supply chains in China? Will they somehow find a way to work some negotiation where they don't have, you may see the cost of the iPhone go up considerably given how closely they're tied to it, or are we just going to let them have that happen? That's one question. But then, in the EU, there's been some rumors on if we keep these tariffs on the EU, what could EU do in response? And there's talks of this digital services tax, and would they hit Metta and Google? A lot of them have located in Ireland, and there's this question of getting this low Irish tax rate. But then there's this question, can the head of the EU do anything, or what's it going to take to actually tax these people or companies? But it's an interesting dynamic. What are you seeing on these big tech as it comes to tax rate and all these other issues? Sure, and well, Apple, you know what they did? They had to put all those iPhones on several airplanes and then ship them over here to try to get in front of, at the time, the 10% tariff. And I think it's something like 80 or 90% of all of their production or all of their input components in the iPhone are coming out of mainland China. So that is a major issue for that firm. I think it plays into some of the India long thesis and the repatriating all of your manufacturing bases from China to somewhere else with a big, low cost economy. That would be one of the themes that we're hearing a lot at WisdomTree with respect to India. Yeah, relations in Europe with the big tech giants, that's been one of those things that needs to be negotiated. That's kind of like been a top five issue between the Americans and the Europeans for some time. The Europeans are going to be in a peculiar situation because if this truly is an embargo type trade war between the US and China, which is essentially what that is, you put 125 percent tariff on somebody, it's the same as saying I'm putting an embargo on you. Now you have this big economic block that's kind of in between, I suppose you could say, the real whisper here that you're not hearing is, okay, think about it. If you can no longer sell to the United States and you have all of these widgets, or whatever it is that you have, you must sell to someone. So do you end up dumping on Europe and surprising European inflation, European PPI, European CPI to the downside? It's an interesting thing because you had mentioned Jeremy, I don't even know if you realized that you had used the S word, stagflation a few minutes ago. I guess if you're in this career long enough, you'll see everything. I never thought I'd see the day where the oil price would spend three years getting cut in half from 123 down to, well, it was 56 bucks, now it's 61 bucks. Cut in half the oil price over the course of three years and then on everyone's lips is the stag word. I think I've seen it all. Well, we did talk a lot about inflation today on the call, Kevin, and the professor has said inflation is going to become a trickier signal because the tariff noise will then question is it inflation really demand or tariffs? But somebody asked during the call, what about our new real-time measures of inflation? I did put out on Thursday when you update the WisdomTree version that puts in the average of Zillow and apartment list instead of the BLS. The BLS number has been trending down for a while but trending down very slowly. The official numbers is still now over 4 percent. If you do some real-time numbers from what we see, it's closer to one and a half percent. When you put in that one and a half percent, headline CPI instead of 2.4 is like one and a half, core instead of 2.8 is 1.8. These numbers would suggest, hey, the Fed should be cutting. If you look at this from the real-time now, obviously the Fed's not just pay attention to our inflation numbers, they've got the official numbers and even beyond the CPI, the PCE. But any sense of any more comments on the inflation picture, Kevin? Yeah, I mean, it is going to be a difficult, I think, task to try to look through any tariff-induced inflation. It was interesting that Powell after the March Fed meeting, seemed to suggest the Fed could do that and has walked it back since that time. Remember, he actually used, Jeff just said the S word. There's also the T word. Powell used that word, transitory, just a couple of weeks ago. It's like, oh no, we're not going to be back. Transitory. Bring it back. So I look at more recent commentaries. So today we had some, talking about it on a Friday here, some comments from New York Fed President Williams. In my opinion, he's one of the big three that talks. When you listen to him, the Vice Chair and the Chair, they're speaking on behalf of the Fed, not necessarily their personal opinions. And he was talking about inflation reaching 3.5% to 4% this year with the tariffs coming in. So in that kind of a backdrop, it's going to be difficult for the Fed. They're going to have this juggling act going forward. They're going to be hamstrung. But funny, at the same time, he was looking for the unemployment rate to go to 4.5% to 5% over the next year. This is the, shall we use Greenspan as well? His word, the conundrum that I think the Fed's going to find themselves in going forward, which is why, unless there's a shock or a surprise, that the Fed being on hold, taking a step back, taking the cautious approach, letting the data come to them is probably the more likely scenario. And we mentioned this on the call, that, I mean, Collins from the Boston Fed said, we're ready to step in if there's market issues. Remember, the Fed's probably not going to cut rates. They save rate cuts for their dual mandate, employment and inflation. They use their balance sheet. Or there's something else, I want to go too far down the rabbit hole, SLR, the supplementary leverage ratio, that is out there as well, that could get reversed. Remember, that was part of one of the Basel Accords, where banks have to hold capital or reserves for their holdings of treasuries. Right? So that also has created, I think we have found, since it was implemented, a dislocating factor. And when we do see these sell-offs in the treasuries kind of magnified, I think that's part of the problem because banks have that issue of these reserves or holding capital against their treasury holdings. So they're not the same efficient and intermediary that they used to be. Chris, let's come back to Europe. You spent like five years over in Europe as our head of research in Europe for Europe. You came back to US after that stretch. But what you heard from the professor today on the call was, hey, US exceptionalism is taking a ding. We might be under some maybe 5, 10% pressure below where we otherwise would have been had all this other craziness not been in effect. Europe is seeing a little bit of a renaissance, a little revitalization. Their defense stocks have been obviously one of the key beneficiaries. But any comments on Europe, the rotation, what you're seeing, comments from some of your colleagues over there in London and abroad? So the big thing, I mean, because the amazing thing that we're talking obviously about tariffs, but tariffs are not the only announcement or the only topic that has come up in, say, the roughly first 100 days of the Trump administration. And one of the big themes, which was sort of bubbling up a year ago, but then with the Trump victory and further announcements in the Ukraine situation and how that's unfolded, more and more the thesis was Europe needs to really take up the mantle of its own defense responsibilities. And so within that vein, the European defense complex companies, ways in which people both in the US, the US investors allocating to these European defense stocks, European investors allocating to these European defense stocks, that's been for the first day, quarter plus a couple of weeks here of 2025, one of the most exciting areas of the European equity market. Then when you think of Europe broadly, you have to think of the financial institutions, the banks. Those have been doing quite well. At various points in time, people have pointed and I know on the call with the professor, the Boone market was mentioned, but Germany's equity market as well has been mentioned, and in ensuring that the productive capacity is maintained. I know it feels like Europe wishes they had their own tech sector and their own tech platforms. A lot of those, I know Jeremy mentioned the digital services tax, and there's a lot of rules where if you look at the tenor of the rules it feels like Europe really would prefer not to have these gigantic platform companies based in the US that almost all their citizens are using one or more of them. And so that's sort of the one area where Europe really doesn't have a great answer. A couple of the countries have their own large language models and their own efforts in that sphere. But if you're thinking of the AI story and saying is Europe in a position to sort of take up its own mantle in AI, there's some fits and starts, but the true AI competition, if there's going to be one, is US versus China, Europe doesn't have a great answer, at least not at present. Well, Jeff, I'm going to give you the last word of this after hours trading session from behind the market. So post office hours, recaps. Jeff had his 15 reasons to be bullish. Jeff can you give us some final thoughts? Any of your reasons to be bullish we haven't covered and leave us with some closing thoughts. Absolutely, absolutely. Jeremy, Chris, Kevin, do you realize, do you realize that in the University of Michigan survey, which was released this week, the general public was asked, do you expect unemployment to go up in the next year? And their response equaled the worst, miserable response rate of the global financial crisis. Literally, the entire insurance industry, banking industry, maybe your own household was insolvent. And the survey went out and they had a response rate like this. If that's not a signal to go long risk assets, I don't know what is. The other thing that you can take from this, Jeremy, you know, Jeremy, I was born in 1981. I've now been on the planet for a long time. The response rate on people saying, where do you expect inflation to be, is back to where it was when we were ending, ending a commodity super cycle around 8182. The public is absolutely braced for everybody to lose their jobs and for the gas price to run up to $5 a gallon and for eggs to be permanently $8. I think we should fade all of that. I'm contrarian optimistic. There we go. What a way to end Behind the Markets this week. I love it. I'm glad we got you back in the rotation. We'll see if we're doing another weekly office hours with the professor, the extended forum here at Behind the Markets. Given all the vol, I wouldn't be surprised to see us do another one next week. But it's always great to get Jeff, Chris, and Kevin on the show. All of us here are representative of Foresight Fund Services, and we're special not to have the office of Investment Products. Guys, really a great conversation. Thanks again for coming on in this after hours session. Have a great weekend. Thanks, Jeff. See you guys. Thanks for listening. Please subscribe and leave us a rating to help others find the show. You can follow and engage with us on Twitter. I am at Jeremy D. Schwartz. Sam is at Samuel Rines and Jeff is at Jeff Weniger. Jeff, Chris and I are registered representatives of Four Side Fund Services. Our discussion today was not tied to offer sale of any Investment Products. Have a great week.