Welcome to The Contrarian Investor Podcast. We give voice to those who challenge a prevailing sentiment in global financial markets. This podcast is for informational purposes only. Nothing on this podcast should be taken as investment advice. Guests were not compensated for their appearance, nor did they supply payment in order to appear. Individuals on this podcast may hold positions in the securities that are discussed. Listeners are urged to educate themselves and make their own decisions. This podcast episode may have ads and the occasional announcement. To listen with our ads or announcements and take advantage of a host of other benefits, consider becoming a premium subscriber. Visit the website contrarian.supercast.tech for more information. Now, here's your host, Mr. Nathaniel E. Baker. Phil Pecsok of Anacapa Advisors. Welcome back to The Contrarian Investor Podcast. Thank you for having me. I am very thrilled to have you back here again. We are recording this on Monday, what day is today, February 24th, 2025, during a time when it appears that there has been a resurgence of pessimism in the market. We had last week Walmart earnings that were themselves fine, but their outlook was bad. And so it does look like there is a little bit, perhaps even a lot of pessimism in the marketplace right now. And you say that is misguided. Tell me why. I look at three types of things when I look at the market. I do look at fundamentals. I do think fundamentals trump everything else. And I do believe that Walmart, you're exactly right. You know, they also said they're gonna spend less on defense, right? So they're gonna cut some defense spending. That's gonna be a multi-year cut. Walmart shows the economy is slowing. And that is something to be concerned about. The second thing I look at is technicals. And I believe that, you know, I was saying the S&P is really kind of in a two-year channel. And if it breaks, I'm gonna change my mind and say, hey, we've got to, you know, you're gonna get a pullback. And I can almost guarantee you, we will have pullbacks this year. You know, you've got Trump in office and he's pro-volatility. He just, you know, wants to shake things up. But here's the thing. We had, I believe the AAII hit a one-year, one-and-a-half-year pessimistic, highest rate, you know, highest that indicator has been in 18 months or so. Maybe it was 14 or so. And you don't usually have that at highs in the market. And so that's a very good thing for the market. One other, one other thing that I've seen is some, some breath thrusts of the market where you get these updates where the, there's a large breath rise in the market. Now we're talking a day after Friday of last week, and we've had a number of these Fridays that have kind of been a little bit scary, down one and a half, two percent, and they, and there's really not a bid to be found. And then today, you know, kind of holds. And so I guess my point is, I think the market's going to be higher at the end of the year. I really do. And I think a lot of it is technically we look okay. I think Trump is very cognizant of the market, the stock market. Depending on where you get your media feed, the left media says the world's ending. Trump's going to go nuclear and everything's in chaos, right? On the right side, they're like, hey, we're cutting everything and everything's great. And I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. I think we're trying to get more fiscally responsible. And that's a good thing. You know, is he a negotiator? Yeah, but I think he's pro business. And so I think, you know, with your contrary in view is when everybody is this pessimistic, you can get a break technically because it will freak people out. We get a break. They're worried. They see it and you will see a five. You could see a 10 percent drop. I'm not saying we're going to have that, but you get that panic when people are are really worried. But, you know, right now, calls are pretty cheap. One month out, pretty cheap. And that's rare to see them cheap when we're near all time highs. So that's that's my take away. Okay. Now, the calls could be cheap for a reason, but you're not seeing anything else that really gives you much concern as for the economy, for the market. I think the economy is you're seeing. I mean, Walmart's at it, right? They're a huge bellwether of of of the economy. You know, everybody in America, 90 percent shop at Walmart. So they can kind of tell you where the economy is going. So that that is what, in my opinion, took the market down and then followed, you know, on top of that. Well, we're going to cut defense spending. OK, well, there's another hit. And then you talked about there were a couple of indicators on Friday furthering that cause. So fundamentally, it says that the economy might be slowing down. You know, we'll see. I know Trump is it understands one thing he definitely understands is the importance of lower interest rate. I don't know how much pool he's going to have with the Fed. He could fire Powell if he wants. Well, he wants to have some pool, right? He wants to have some say. He said he's not going to fire him, but Trump can say he loves somebody and next week they're gone, you know, tomorrow they're gone. So, you know, who knows what he's going to do right now? The White House doesn't have a lot of say with the Fed, so they don't have a lot of actual pool. So we will see. You know, you get interest rates to drop a little bit, and I think the economy should be good and I and I think the market should be good. Do we have to digest some of these higher PEs? Yeah, yeah, we do. So I don't see us going up 25, 30 percent, but I can see us having a 10 percent year. Yeah. All right. It's interesting also the way the markets, the different parts of the market. And this has been a very tech-driven rally going back a couple of years now. Yeah. But techs had a hard time. But then if you look at certain staples, they've been doing all right. Like these last couple of days, they've held up quite all right, and many of them have moved higher. Do you have any views on the different parts of the market like that? Well, you know, I've always been a believer in tech. I mean, I've just always been a believer in tech. And one of the nice things with the... We have two funds. We have an S&P fund and a NASDAQ fund. And I love our NASDAQ fund. I mean, it's one of the highest rated in the country. It's just because it self-corrects itself. The higher, better, stronger companies become a higher concentration of the NASDAQ. Now, they can start pulling back and that can take a little bit of a hit, but I am a believer in tech. I just am. And I think tech will lead for the next five years. Really? Okay. I do. So you're not concerned about the increased capex that these companies have to spend, like all these announcements that... Yeah, I am. I think that really hurts the smaller companies that really have to borrow. Some larger companies borrow too, right? So there's no question higher borrowing cost slows everything down. That's what I was getting to with Trump. He understands the importance of keeping getting rates as low as they can. He's just going to keep putting pressure on power to lower, lower, lower. I don't know if it's going to work. I don't know if they can. The biggest concern, and we always say a trader reserves the right to change their opinion. I learned that day one. Guy's bullish, our layer is bearish. You can change your opinion. We're starting to see signs of stagflation, which concerns me. Get a little bit of inflation, not much growth, and that's where it is going to get a little bit disconcerting. Well, that is all very interesting stuff. I want to take a quick break and come back and ask you some more stuff, including about your experience in the fires out there in LA, which you have quite some harrowing details we're going to get into. It's Trump, tariffs, defense spending, defense contractors, and a bunch of other stuff. We're going to do that after the break. If you are a premium subscriber, do not touch the dial, you will not get the break. Take everybody else to become a premium subscriber, visit the website contrarianpod.substack.com and sign up. We hope you enjoyed this episode of The Contrarian Investor Podcast, where we give voice to those who challenge a prevailing narrative in global financial markets. Consider becoming a premium subscriber. For $9 a month or less, premium subscribers receive a number of benefits. Podcasts are posted immediately after they are recorded. Transcripts are made available within 24 hours. Premium subscribers get direct access to the host. And of course, there are no ads or interruptions. Visit contrarian.supercast.tech for more information. By the way, you don't need the.tech suffix to get to that website. contrarianpod.substack.com will do the trick. And we also have a substack where you can sign up for the same prices, same benefits, same details. contrarianpod.substack.com. So if you already have a substack account and use it, or have the app and use that, that's probably the best way to go. So contrarian.supercast.com or contrarianpod.substack.com, whole bunch of benefits, including, of course, getting this episode up to a week early without ads or annoying announcements. And you also get the daily Contrarian briefing and podcast that is released every market day morning at 7 a.m. This is a Contrarian take on the events of the day ahead and what is likely to move markets, such as economic data releases, earnings and other things. It is really good, and that is completely unbiased, of course. So check that out, contrarianpod.substack.com or contrarian.supercast.tech. Now on with the show. Here with Phil Pecsok of Anacapa Advisors out in Los Angeles. First of all, Phil, I hope that you are okay after the awful fires that we had there, because you're in the Palisades, if I'm not mistaken, right? Yeah. My house was survived. It's kind of a long story. The fire started about maybe 200 yards from my house. Wow. So it was pretty much an all-day battle against it. Ironically, I saw the fire start from about two miles away from my office in downtown Pacific Palisades. Wow. Which we had moved into. I'd been in a different location and we made this beautiful upgrade, moved in January 1 and we were seven days into the office. And the brick building surrounded by asphalt in the middle of down, no chance in a million years it burned to the ground. Oh my God. With all the new equipment, whatever. But the house, ironically, at 10.30 in the morning, I got there and backyard, neighbor's backyard above me, right, left, everybody on fire, my backyard on fire. And I pretty much spent till 6 p.m. fighting it. And found out three days later that because we're on the north end of the Palisades, it blew by us and then picked up steam and grew as it went on. And I was like, if I get by the first day, we have a chance. But then, you know, it came back and burnt half the houses that it was. Wow. But, you know, I mean, my office manager lost her house. Two kids, they lost everything. I probably have 200 friends. I'm 55 years in the Palisades. Wow. I have probably 200 or 300 friends that lost everything. Wow. I probably have 200 or 300 friends that displaced, you know. So now, what's going to happen going forward? There's so many questions. This is a one off. You know, there's other been other big fires. But this is, I mean, Pacific Palisades, like the lowest house is probably 2 million. It goes up to about 100 million. Yeah. You know, and. It's just mind boggling what what happened. A lot of them are, you know. I mean, I just it's just the pictures are unreal. Yeah, being there in person is unreal. Yeah, it's there's no words. So then the question is, well, what's going to happen? We, you know, it's a long story, but we don't really know. So but thank you for asking. Yeah, I guess. Yeah. You know, I mean, to turn this, you know, as heartless as it sounds, to turn this into economics, the and I'm glad that you're OK. Is are there like locally going to be economic repercussions from this? I mean, I was the second biggest metropolitan in the US. If I'm not mistaken. Yeah. Great. Great question. OK, so interestingly, it looks like Gaza or Hiroshima. And if you go across sunset into Santa Monica or Brentwood, it's perfect. Now, Malibu is blown up on the beach, you know, and Palisades is, I mean, literally there's an area called the Alphabet Streets that my office was next to, my office, and I think it's 98 percent of the homes are gone. I mean, and I'm talking about out of 1200, it's like 1190 are gone. And the 10 that are there are just like some structures are. So that's how bad it is. And then we moved our office three, two or three miles away, and it's beautiful. We just moved our office, bought new computers. It's, we had this contingency plan that we spent a couple days, disaster contingency plan for an earthquake. Yeah. You know, that was our plan. Big earthquake, you lose connection, blah, blah, blah. And when I left the office to go get my stuff out of my house and fight the fire in a million years, I never thought the building would burn. Like, you're what? So, yeah, it's surreal. It's still kind of surreal. Well, I mean, yeah. But I guess if there is all if all these people need homes to be rebuilt, one would expect a construction boom in that part of LA, which is sounds substantial. Yeah. So you you asked a question. I kind of deviated a little bit. Repercussions. OK, so what's going to happen? There are we're going to see a 20 to 40 percent drop in lot prices. So a lot that was going three million is now going to go for probably two and a half. OK. Now, where is it going to go from there? We don't know. Now, there's there's a couple things. There's things to consider. You know, you had this incredible city with fully grown 80, 100 year old trees. It lost a lot of them in certain areas. Right. So, you know, how does that go? But we also have telephone poles, and now they're going to hopefully put the redo all that, redo the streets, redo, put all the power lines underground, and it could be a really beautiful area. So I think people are going to want to live there. So you're going to get this original drop. You have to have some drop in lot value because of supply and demand. You have 10,000 homes and 7,500 burned, which is ridiculous. And so you're probably, you know, people may or may, I think everybody wants to come back, but some people are older. Some people just don't. You know, some people might move to the desert and play golf, and some people might move to Santa Barbara or San Diego or out of the state. You know, if you have kids, what are you going to do? Because schools, it's going to take a year to... There were four elementary schools, all four burned. Mine burned. I walked by my elementary school burning, and my kids, when they're like, Oh, my God, all four, two main supermarkets in town, both burned. You know, it's like there's really... So these are going to take a while to get back. Now, what happens economically is that you're going to get a drop in lots. I don't know who's going to buy them, but I know people that have been always wanting to live in the Palisades are trying to buy stuff. And they'll buy them for a million less or 25% off, maybe 30, 35%, you know? Well, go for it. I mean, that sounds like a good opportunity. Well, it is, right? And then you got some carry costs. You have to buy lots with cash. Oh, so that's one thing because you can't get a loan. And then you really got to. And so that's there's some people that need the cash. And there's some people that were underinsured, right? Some people remember they only you might say you had a four or five million dollar house. But it could have been that the lot was three million. Oh, and so the lot values go down and there's no house. And so you might have a... I know somebody that's go, I got a six million dollar house. And the insurance company gives them a million and a half dollars because they had a three thousand square foot house and they're saying $500 a foot and they're going to give you a million and a half. And you're like, wait a minute. It's a big haircut. You know, but you still own the lot. So these are all the things that are going to happen. Okay, so we have the Olympics. Now, this is one thing that most people aren't talking about, but we have the Olympics coming to Los Angeles in 28. And so I kind of think that they're really... And the World Cup, soccer World Cup, a couple of games, I think, also, in LA. Absolutely. So I think they're going to want to show that we've, that they're doing, and they're, they are, they brought in the big equipment. And I mean, the big mining equipment to clear and EPA is out. So they are moving faster than, well, a lot of us thought it might be two or three years to clear all this up. It could be six months. Wow. They are moving fast. But they're going to have, see, here's the problem. You have 2000 degree heat, it melts stuff underground in the asphalt. And so they're going to have to replace electrical and gas and water pipes. And if they don't, we already had something break that wasn't broken. So just like a week ago, we had a main water break, because something burnt and weakened it, and then the rain shifted the ground and it popped. So stuff like that's going to happen, so they may have to replace all of these. These are all these questions. I don't know if your listeners care about all this. If you're a billionaire, you go buy 50 lots for $2.8 million, and you're going to make money. It's almost impossible not to. I think there's some, you've heard about Black Rock, or you've heard about some of these large, if they're a developer, that some people might try to scoop them up. Then you get into what are they going to build? Are they going to rebuild the single-family homes? Are they going to build more apartments and condos for more people? We hope it's the same mix of apartments, condos, single-family duplexes. You hope it's the same, rebuild the school, right? You know, you hope that they rebuild as is. You don't know. You don't know what the government is going to do, right? Sick of me yet? Become a premium subscriber and avoid all ads or interruptions. Other benefits as well. Visit contrarian.supercast.tech for more information. Those are the crazy things. And I mean, the story of fighting the fire, we can save it for another time. But I mean, it was it was six hours of like I almost died three times. You know, going up to the roof, I almost get blown off the roof. Oh, my God. Yeah, it was. I mean, at the end of the day, right down to my daughter's mountain bike and I crash into a tree, which I couldn't see. I crossed with down power lines and I go into the trash. So you don't die in the fire. You die. Yeah. And by the way, when I exited, I had a 93 Jeep, a 93 Jeep. No roof, no doors, and really no seat belts and the fireman, and I'm the last guy to get out and the fireman goes, you need to abandon your car and run for your life. And I'm going, wait a minute, what? You know, what fireman tells you to run for your life? And I'm like, so I asked him to repeat it. What did you say? He goes, you need to abandon your car and run. And I look around me and there's 50 foot flames, 360. Like 360, and I'm like, I'm in trouble. And I'm like, do you have a mask? And he just took off. And I'm like, where do I leave the car? He's like, right here. And he takes off. And I was on the double yellow line on Sunset Boulevard. And there was nowhere to go. I couldn't, I was trying to get to the ocean because I'm thinking the ocean today, right? Like, there's a quarter mile of fire between me and the ocean. And I'm like, oh my god, I like, I'm kind of trapped. So I kind of stood in the middle of the sunset. And people don't realize that the fire, you know, the wind blows it into you and stuff like this. And it was hot. So I tried to walk back. And then I ended up walking back to my house, which was like two miles away, trying to save it. So then what did you do after that? I got back to my house and it was everything was on fire. The backyards, we had a gazebo, which exploded in flames, trees on fire. And I had some hoses, right? I had good water pressure. I took, put out my neighbor, Jim Jackson. He's on my left. I went over the fence, put his out, going in my backyard, trying to cool. And I've got these railroad ties, which are soaked in this oil of some sort. I don't know what it's called, and they won't go out. They're just totally keep going. And then I go, and all this stuff's blowing on my roof. So now I climb two stories up to my roof, and the winds are about 40, 50 miles an hour. I get up to my roof, I almost get blown backwards. I grab the roof. I'm like, that's how I should have died because... Wow. And I'm like, I got to be careful. And so I'm hosing down the roof because all the embers, people don't realize what the big chunks of wood are blowing and on your roof. And so you're trying to get that under the eaves. And see, I'm at the north end of the Palisades. The Palisades is north-south, the ocean's south, not west-south. And I'm thinking the wind, I'm looking at my phone that the wind is blowing north to south. I'm like, if I can just hold it for a couple hours and get through this, it's going to blow by me. And so that was kind of my thinking was, you know, and my wife's screaming at me, the city's on fire. I'm like, Briar, cities don't burn. You know, it's OK. The city's on fire. I'm like, no, the cities don't burn. The school's on fire. I'm like, schools don't burn. You know, everything's burning and I don't know it. So, I'm sitting up on my roof. And by the way, I don't see from noon to 6 p.m. when I left, I don't see a police car. I don't see a fireman. I don't see a worker. Nobody comes to my cul-de-sac of 10 homes. And I, sure, I say most of them, because one or two of them, if we go up, they're all going to domino. And I don't see a fire truck. And I keep thinking, they come and, you know, get me out of here. Well, they were otherwise occupied, I guess, right? No, no, because at 6 p.m., I drove, at 6 p.m., the water goes bone dry. And I'm like, I can't do anything now. You know, now I'm risking my, like now there's the risk reward isn't there. So, I got my daughter's mountain bike, crashed into the tree with downed power lines, like, you know, make it to my abandoned car, which is where all the cars got snow plowed, if you saw the, but I couldn't figure it out. I'm looking and I saw, like when I first parked there, I saw this Ferrari and I go, oh, I'm gonna park my jeep next to the Ferrari. I go, this would be a cool picture. And I go, they're probably not gonna let the Ferrari burn, right? And I go, no, I don't think I'm gonna do that. I think I'm gonna move it to the side. And I moved it to the side and there was a bush. And I go, I'm gonna park it next to that. And they go, no, no, I'm gonna park it next to the burnt bush because the burnt bush won't re-burn. I come back down, the old bush, the bush that hadn't burned, seven cars incinerated and all the Ferrari and the Porsche and all these Mercedes, nice cars that were like scattered, like 40 of them, all pushed together, all like condensed. And I hadn't seen the pictures of them being plowed. And I'm looking at it, I got fire all around me, I'm trying to figure out what the hell, who parks their car, touching another person's car. I can't figure it out. So sorry, you can edit as much as you want. No, I think I wasn't planning on talking about this at all, but it's an interesting eyewitness account. That's surely worth something, even if there isn't an immediate investing lesson. I mean, first of all, just from a human standpoint, I'm glad that you're okay. Well, okay. Well, let's move on here to the more, you know, as hard as it might be. And you mentioned, we touched on this, the workers that are going to build up, that, you know, a lot of them have left the country or are being politely or not so politely asked to leave the country due to executive orders. And as we all know, we have this new president. I guess we're moving here from one current event to another. Sure. And we're talking Trump here. And you have some views on this that are contrarian. As we know, the Trump moves markets, you know, sometimes within the course of a day, you know, the direction we saw this with the tariffs, right? Remember that we woke up on a Monday morning and it was, he was going to do tariffs on Mexico and Canada. And then by the end of the day, he had postponed them. Anyway, you have some views here on this, on Trump and not just tariffs, but everything. And yeah, so tell us about that. And then we can take from there. You know, I'm in the political spectrum. I think it's important. First of all, I always say you can't be too stubborn on, especially in trading. Like people that listen to you, I know the best traders are not necessarily the smartest because there's some very smart people that go to Stanford or Harvard. I've met them and they are very smart, but they know they're smart and they think they're always right. And the market, when you're wrong, you've got to admit that you're wrong. Okay. So I think when you look at politics, whether you love Trump or hate Trump, you can't get stubborn. And like the guy from The New York Times when he was first elected said, you know, it's going to be a 10 or 20% or 50% drop in the stock market, right? But that's not what happened. He just hated Trump. And so I think with him, you've got to kind of think two things. One is he's pro markets. He is pro the stock market. He's pro, you know, fiscal, more fiscal responsibility. I know some people say, well, he wants to cut taxes. That's not fiscally responsible. But I think his argument is, well, I would rather a person or a business spend their money than the government. And I think we're seeing that the government is less than efficient, right? So I say he's pro business and he's pro volatility. So he really is pro business and he's pro volatility. And that's what I tell everybody, you're going to get volatility. And what that means is I think you can fade the volatility. So what I try to do is go the opposite. I always believe that this fits in why I like your podcast and why I like your thinking is I've never met anybody that's good in investing that follows other people. I've never met one. There's people that try to be value investors. Okay. But then they try to copy other people or say, hey, this guy's buying this. Well, if you copy somebody, you're behind them, right? You're after that person. So I've never really found anybody that's a truly good trader that follows other people. You know, you have to think differently. So I think when Trump says, and so here, if Trump comes out with tariffs, he's using as a threat, he does not want war, he does not want to blow up. But he, the US has been taken advantage of, right? We overpay certain things. We overpay NATO. Is he going to abandon NATO? I don't really think so. But we pay a big ticket, and a lot of countries don't pay. So he kind of throws out a low ball offer, so to speak. It's his way of throwing out a low ball offer. That's how I look at it. It's not where he's going to end up. But if a building he wants to buy is $10 million, she says, I'll pay you $5 million, and everybody freaks out. Well, he's going to buy it for $8 million or $9 million. And that's the same thing with... That's what I see with these tariffs and what he's doing. Now, he's doing everything he said he was going to do. He said he was going to get rid of the people that were here illegally, especially those that committed crimes. And that's where he's starting. They're trying to get rid of waste. That's what they're doing. So, I think he's going to do what he's said. I mean, I kind of do. People say he lies. I get it. He exaggerates. There's no question he gets facts wrong. Does he lie? Well, people will say, yes, he does. And some people will say he just gets his facts wrong. I don't know. I'm not going to get into that. Show me a politician who doesn't lie. And I'll show you a politician that's not very successful. Well, he definitely is a salesman. He definitely exaggerates, you know, but he said, you know, for example, he said the president of Ukraine's approval rating was four percent. Well, that's not right. Did he hear it somewhere? Maybe, you know. But the thing is, you know, is he a liar? I, you know, did he get his facts wrong? Probably got his facts wrong, is what I think. But I don't want to go down that rabbit hole. Mike, what is going to happen? So when he talks about a tariff, let the market sell off and then buy it. Yeah, I mean, it's kind of like, you know, that's that's how I kind of look at it. And you're going to hear some things and the market is going to move for a day or two, and then you can counter it. So that's how the contrarian know that he's really a businessman. He wants to get deals done. He does not want to blow up the country. He doesn't want to be in wars. You know, you kind of know where he stands. And so I think the other thing I've learned over the years is you got to have a little patience. Like when he says something, you're going to get panic, right? Let the panic play out. You don't have to buy panic immediately. Let it play out a little bit, you know? And I think that's where contrarians sometimes miss, is, you know, momentum can go a little bit farther than you think. Something can be overbought, but it can stay overbought. Something can be more so. It can go a little, so give it a little bit of time, you know? And maybe be more patient before you put the contrarian move on and maybe wait for the turn. I think you give up a little bit, but it's a much safer play. Yeah. So I think a lot of people listen to this, our traders or investors, and we never want to catch the falling knife. People like to nibble a little bit, but it's so much safer to wait for it to turn, or wait for it to turn and then retest. Like that's so much safer. Even if you give up upside or you... Yeah, because I don't think you are giving up upside. I think the safest way is kind of watching for a retest. Sometimes you get a V-bounce and you miss it. Okay. So you miss it. Unless it's something you really want to buy and you get an opportunity. But there's going to be these plays. And I think... I talked to somebody that... And I suggest people get media from the right and the left because I just think you want to hear both sides of the story. And I think if you look and listen to a stock analyst, you should listen to the Bull and Bear case. I mean, I really do. I think you should never pick the yes man. I think you should actually more often pick the no man, you know, pick the counter argument and just see if it makes sense. Yeah. Oh, so let's play this out a little bit, if you don't mind on Trump. And so, I mean, he didn't want tariffs. And we don't... He seems to want tariffs. He seems to want some kind of tariffs. No, he doesn't want... Okay, so there's two things. One is, if somebody has tariffs on our products, he's going to say, screw you, we're going to put it on yours. Right? Because it's hurting our manufacturers. You know, India is a great example. They have tariffs on us. We don't really have tariffs on them. And so he's like, well, we're going to put... Now, he also threatened them on Mexico and Canada for a different reason. Because he's... Sometimes it's because they have tariffs and sometimes because he wants them to close the border or help us or whatever. So he uses it a little bit as a negotiating tactic. OK. And it seems to be working. Yeah. OK. So let's say... So let's say that they do agree that he does this and they agree on some tariffs. I mean, the classic economic argument is that impediments to trade are bad and that eventually there'll be a slowdown. Do that still apply, you think, if they do this? Have they put up impediments to trade or not? Yeah. I mean, impediments to trade would cause a problem. I think they would. And I guess what I'm getting at is his lowball offer doesn't mean that's where we're going to end up. You know, that's what I'm saying. Can there be a tariff? Yeah, maybe. You know, look what he did with Canada and Mexico. You know, he postponed it. He didn't say no. He just said, well, we're going to give it a month, you know? I mean, he's like, here's five. I think we're coming due here. Here's five million for their property. And then it really pisses off the other side. He goes, well, maybe I'll pay six. You know, that's what he's doing. All right. OK. He's negotiating. Yeah. So the deal. Yeah. And then some other things that he and this one has already started to turn. But I remember it was a week or two ago and he said that we would cut defense spending. Yeah. And the defense contractors, you know, went down and they have since rebounded a bit. But now it's that one where could that be a buying opportunity for those? Well, OK. So I love that question. I wouldn't buy him yet. And the reason is, let's use some common sense. Let's just play this out. Like you always say, OK, that's a big cut. Yeah. Yeah, that's a big cut. So if he doesn't. And again, could this just be a negotiating ploy? Well, I think he wants cuts. You know, maybe it turns out to be five. But the thing is, it's a lot of money in defense. And I've heard he's trying to get I don't know if this rumor or not. I've heard he's trying to get Canada. I mean, Canada, China and Russia. Let's all cut our defense spending, you know, by 50 percent or 25 percent or whatever. And it can be over five years. You don't have to cut it today. But, you know, when you let me just let's just be honest. The defense, if you cut it, they can figure out how to, you know, pay 140 million per plane instead of 150 million per plane. You know, I mean, I kind of think the toilet seats at six grand. Okay, we'll buy it for five grand. You know, it's like, I think you can find it. And I think the amount of money that they're saving, I mean, I got to tell you, you could see. First of all, I think we were heading for disaster. People don't quite get what trillions of dollars in debt and deficit means. Like trillions, and you look at 5% interest on 30, 40 trillion in debt. Talking a little big, talking one and a half to two trillion dollars in interest. Yeah. Right. Yeah, we had a whole episode. You can defend spenders, but the defense contractors, yeah. Okay. Well, so yes, defense contractors, I think you want to know something. Maybe they're going to take a 10% hit or 20% hit over six months. I mean, they already are, I think, a down a lot. Well, okay. Yes. And see, this is a big number. He's not saying cut 1%. Right. He wants 40 to 50%. You go 8, 8, 8, 8 or whatever it is. And so there has to be a cut. And by the way, there's going to be a cut in spending. So are they going at? I would wait. I'd play it out. Yeah. Well, let me throw something else here at you. If the Europe is probably going to have to spend more on defense, right? Yeah. And they're going to have to order planes and rockets and stuff. And do they have the industry to supply all of it? Well, do they have to like, okay, so I know he wants NATO to pay more. And so are they going to buy US.? Probably. Oh, no. But where else can I get them? I mean, I mean, US has the best stuff. So, yeah. Okay, I have not ground out the numbers of Europe and the United States, but this is kind of what you're saying is like, you know, so I'm trying to figure out how to articulate this best. When there's news, what's interesting is, I always wonder is it short-term news or long-term news? And that's really relevant, right? Because there's different things that are short-term and long-term, right? It might have an immediate effect or it might have effect over years. You know, if you have significant defense spending over four to five years, that's a real, that's a big long-term item, you know? So you're going to get a sharp drop. You should get about, I'm not going to say how much, a third, a half, you know? But then you might start, these big funds might start saying, hey, let's slowly turn our position. Will Europe counter it? I don't know. I don't know that it will be enough to counter it. I think there's probably going to be a slight hit to the fence. The other question here, and this gets into, again, tariffs or threats thereof, inflation, it's not just tariffs that are causing it, obviously, it's monetary policy. But the inflation bogeyman is still there. I mean, yes, over the long term, if we are able to cut spending and cut the debt, that'll be good, although you still need monetary policy to play along. Where do you see a threat of inflation, short term and near term? Well, it's kind of funny. This is probably the most accurate I've been on anything, is inflation and where rates are. I could not believe they kept rates at basically zero after COVID. I mean, when the stock market got 100 percent rally, did you know that there wasn't a large bank, not a Goldman and JP Morgan, any of them that was looking back in like 2022. They weren't even looking for a rate hike for two years. This is asinine. Like, why wouldn't you just hike a quarter, you know, a quarter? Go up 1 percent over a year. Like, you have to do something and then they go late, right? Then they're reactionary. So, why am I getting at is the Fed has always been reactionary and they need to kind of head things off. They raised quickly and then they backed off. I don't see how they're going to cut rates, really. I don't think inflation is coming down. You still have a ton, a ton of debt. We have 30, what is it? 35 trillion-ish. Yeah. You know, give or take, a trillion. A trillion here, a trillion there. Pretty soon, you're talking about real money, yeah. Start being real money. So the thing is, we're not really out of this yet. Now, I do think Trump, by the time he gets out of here, is going to have a balanced budget. And I said this before he got elected. I said, he's basically would be a lame duck president. And he's going to do things that need to be done. I predicted, and I'm going to predict it again, that by the time he's done, we're going to have a balanced budget. And I think that's good. Now, so you're talking about some of the things that hurt, you know, are some of our foreign laborers leaving or whatever. They'll figure out a way to get people back. They'll figure out a way that people have work permits where we need them. Okay? That's what I think. And so I don't really think there's going to be hurt. I think the good of getting less wasteful spending and more money into the hands of Americans and people that pay taxes and let a business owner hire people, you know, and pay less than taxes and hire people. And I'm more pro-business. I think free enterprise, free markets are much better than government spending. So I think it's good. Yeah, that's been proven, I think. Yes, yes, yes. Okay. Now, does this all come at the expense of growth? I mean, if he is able to balance a budget in four years, a lot of the expansion has come from government spending, whether we want to admit it or not. Infrastructure spending is certainly necessary. Yeah, that's another question. So is growth of government spending good? Like, what are you getting for it? No. You're getting any real GDP growth? Are you getting any productivity? No, you're not. I don't know, but if you cut it down, that's going to hurt, isn't it? It is, but again, are you looking long term? So what you're asking from a trading standpoint is maybe is a short term going to get hurt? I think the investment committee, investing committee is smarter than that. And I think that's why you've seen the stock market up. Yeah. I mean, the stock market is up since he got elected. And so it's because he's pro business and because this is better than we would have been. So is he going to trim social security? I don't really think he wants to touch it. And there's some very big programs, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security that probably need. But if you're getting rid of the fraud, maybe that helps save them. I don't know. I don't really know how much fraud is in there. I know there were dead people and people 150 years old. I don't really know if that was a typo and that person really deserves it or what. I just, I don't know. So, yeah. But, you know, I'm glad he's getting, they're trimming some stuff that we don't want. And I think it's being more, I think anybody, right? If, just take your house. If you're buying crap and shit that you're wasting and, you know, raining in your spending is a good thing. But I'm not going to have my Mercedes. Well, maybe you're not, but at least you're going to be fiscally sound and you're going to keep your house, right? Sure. But then consumer spending, I mean, look at Walmart earnings today, right? They have that outlook. Yes. So then there is that, right? And then did the market overreact to that? Did that cause the? So it was funny because we had an internal debate of why the market is down. I think it's all Walmart. Yeah, sure. Yeah. I think it's all Walmart. And they're like, well, maybe it's defense. He's kind of defense spending and all this. I go, yeah, maybe, but Walmart's a big deal, right? That's a pulse. And it's all about the outlook, right? The earnings themselves are fine. It's just what they said about the outlook. So yeah. It's always forward-looking. Yeah. So I think, you know, we always talk about contrarian investing. And I think what people, I might've made this comment to you on the last one. Contrarian, you have to be careful about what it is. And what I mean by that is, I give my, this example to my other friends. I say, you can't say that the sun always rises in the east. And so tomorrow is going to rise in the west. Right. That's not really contrarian, right? Well, it is. It's also stupid and wrong, but yeah. Right. And, and so the point is, is that you can't just argue against facts. Right. Okay. So I think it's, it's kind of important to understand Walmart's slowing down, you know, defense spending getting cut is a fact. That's a fact. And it's going to be cut. How much? We don't know. But the defense contractor should come down. They have to because it's a fact that we're cutting spending. Right. And it's not really a fact that we're going to have tariffs. They're a threat. They're a threat. The threat is a fact. But what's really going to happen, right? And that's where you can be a contrarian and say, listen, everybody says, everybody hates him. He's crazy. He's crazy. Wants to blow up the world. You know, yeah, you know, no, you guys have it wrong. Everybody's panicking. I want to buy that panic. That's good contrarian investing, okay? To buy the panic for no good reason. Right. And so I just think when your investors think about these things, you know, a couple of your examples are really good. Walmart says the economy is slowing. Okay. The Fed in their notes came out and said, hey, inflation is not resolved. And you need, that's a fact. Don't go against that. You know, it is, they're probably not going to cut rates, right? You know, at least I don't think in the next three months or six months. I mean, maybe a quarter, but I don't expect much of anything. And I think facts don't dismiss. Now, Trump, the way you, if you, your listeners will, I do think, understand who he is. He's the art of the deal author. He is going too low ball. And when he says something freaks everybody out, I had an investor today talked about, he goes, I'm not ready. You know, Trump wants to blow up the world. And I'm like, you know. And he didn't blow up the world last time, right? I mean, that's, although he still re-elects to run for, that means maybe you could have. Right. He wants to get out of a war. Well, is that really bad? Like, remember, the defense contractors might be going down because we've been spending a lot of money on bullets and bombs and tanks and planes. And so, you know. OK, but consumer spending, if consumer spending slows in the US and Walmart is about as good at Bellwether as you have, at least in the low end, then that will cause bad stuff. And I would not counter, I would not contrarian invest that. Right. I would just say, hey, that's an indicator. I mean, that will bring the global economy to slow down also. Well, but wait a minute. How long is that going to be? OK, I don't know. And how long is that going to be? And is it on their next earning call in three months? Or do they say, hey, pick back up? You know, and I don't really know. But these are things you got to factor in. You know, I got to tell you, I'll tell you where. So one of the things that I think is interesting is you do, you're going to have a lot of government workers looking for jobs. Yeah. Now, that is a fact. And what's that going to do? Supply demand. It's going to create, I think, some of these lower paying jobs. You know, what a government worker, I'm not trying to be rude to the government workers of the world, but you know, what are they going to do? You know, and so maybe they want a job as a waiter or maybe they, you know, an IT person or something, but they're going to be looking for a job. And so that is going to act, even though we're losing some, maybe you say, hey, some of these people that aren't here legally are going to be moved out, maybe. But maybe we have an inflow of some people that want jobs. They just might move more private sector and out of government. And so that could bring down wages. And I think it's going to. And that would reduce inflation. And that would reduce inflation. And that's kind of what I think is a very possible outcome. Now, while these people are getting six month paid leave, are they going to go find a job immediately? Well, some will and some will wait. They'll wait till it stops and they'll get a job. Well, get a job now. Why not? And they may not or they may start looking. I don't know. But you're going to have a decent amount of people looking for jobs. You know what? I just realized I have to get off of this because I have a work call that started for my day job. So this is a really interesting conversation. Maybe in closing, tell our listeners how they can find out more about you, more about your firm and yeah, I'll put that in the show notes. Yeah, I appreciate it. Listen, you guys do a great and we could dedicate more time to just the market next time. No, I feel this was necessary, but yeah. You know, it was a life-changing moment. Absolutely. Anacapa Advisors. So Anacapa is the island off of California. Right. That we can see when the smoke is not there. So it's anacapaadvisors.com. And I'm Phil at anacapaadvisors.com. That's great. Awesome. Thank you so much, Phil, and sharing all this with us. Really great conversation. And with that, we thank our listeners as well. And we'll be back here again, probably next week, if not the week after. Speak then. Bye. Thank you for listening to The Contrarian Investor Podcast. We hope you enjoyed this episode. To subscribe to this podcast, simply open your favorite podcast software and search for Contrarian Investor. Follow us on social media by searching for Contrarian Investor on Twitter and Instagram. Send us your thoughts on feedback at contrarianpod.com. We look forward to speaking to you again next time.