This week, the streets round my house have been unusually busy. It starts early afternoon as the orderly queues form outside the local Asian sweet shops, and snake around the block. Boxes of treats are carted away for later. And by sundown, it's party time. A cacophony of muffled yet loud car stereos as families cruise around looking for a rare parking spot. All because my bit of the city has some of the best curry restaurants in the UK. And if you've been fasting since before sunrise, you're going to want something really delicious to break that fast with. I'm Marnie Chesterton from the BBC World Service. This is Unexpected Elements. Unexpected Elements is the show where we take a story from the news you might have heard of and use it to springboard into a world of unexpected science stories. And I've already given you a hint as to what has grabbed our attention this week. Did you know it's Ramadan? You know, when we talk about Ramadan, the first thing that comes to mind is fasting. It is a month where they fast from food and drink. You know, we don't eat or drink from dawn till dusk. It's not even water. So to break the fast, we usually have dates. It's a way of attaining closeness to God and looking at it through that lens and that perspective. It's such a blessed time. Ramadan Mubarak. Ramadan Mubarak. Ramadan Mubarak. That's right. The ninth month of the Islamic calendar, when Muslims all over the world fast between dawn and sunset in the belief it will bring them closer to Allah. It begins and ends every year with the appearance of the Crescent Moon and this year it began around the 28th of February and it's going to go on until the 30th of March. It's a time for self-reflection, spiritual improvement, spending time with family and doing good deeds. It's also a time when some of my colleagues start to look a bit tired and twitchy as their usual mid-morning coffee or cigarette goes on hold until sundown. So regular listeners will know that our news headline is just our jumping-off point because we here on Unexpected Elements are all about the science. And here to help me with that is our international panel of journalists. Allow me to introduce in Helsinki, Finland, we have Tristan Ahtone. Hande, hande babon. Good to be here. And a new voice on Unexpected Elements. In Clarence, South Africa, we have Leonie Joubert. Welcome. Dumi lang. Goeiemorgen. Hello. Goeiemorgen. So Tristan, we started with Ramadan and fasting during daytime. So what science do you want to bring to the table off the back of that? Well, since our show this week is inspired by Ramadan, I thought it would be good to talk about how dietary fasting can be used by people all around the world to help them lose weight or just improve their health more generally. There are a lot of studies on fasting and thanks to lab rats it's been generally accepted that if you cut their feeding times or cut their food altogether for short periods, they lose weight. But the thing about all of these different studies is that when you leave the realm of mice, research gets really contradictory. Right. Yes, I remember one of the studies that suggested you get a longer life in mice if you restrict the calories. But I guess one of the more achievable ways of doing it is intermittent fasting. Yeah, that's right. Intermittent fasting can refer to a lot of different things, from long periods of time not eating, eating every other day, to shorter, more measured periods, like restricting your time to eat anywhere between four to ten hours in a day, and fasting the rest of the time. So studies say that this can help with weight loss, lengthen lifespans, and can even boost the regenerative abilities of some stem cells. Some researchers suggest that calorie restrictions can help animals develop greater resistance to toxins, while others theorize that slowing your metabolism can help your body live longer. I'm not sure I would want to live longer and be hangry all the time, but... On the surface it does sound like this is a good thing, right? But that's clearly not what the full story is about. Well, no. As I say, once you start delving into the literature, it becomes a fairly murky picture. A moment ago, I mentioned that fasting can boost regenerative abilities. That research comes from MIT, which found that fasting mice saw boosts in intestinal stem cells when they began re-feeding, helping their intestines recover from inflammation and injury. However, those researchers also saw consequences if cancerous mutations occurred during that regenerative period. Mice were more likely to develop early stage intestinal tumors. That's really surprising. Do researchers think that this might translate to humans too? Well, the early worry of this finding is that in humans, fasting can still provide health benefits, but may pose a risk when you start eating again if during that time you're exposed to anything that might cause a change or a mutation in your DNA. Researchers said charred steak, for instance, could cause mutations during re-feeding, increasing your chances of developing lesions that could give rise to cancer. OK. So the point where our digestive systems are in a state of renewal might also be potentially when they're most vulnerable. Yeah. And these are just a few of the many studies that are out there on the topic. One study I found looked into the effects of fasting on psychological health and also produced contradictory results. Basically fasting led to negative emotional states like irritability, as we've discussed, but also to positive psychological experiences like accomplishment, pride and control. Ah yes, relating much more to the irritability. Thank you Tristan. So, from fasting from food to other kinds of fast, it's time to join the Unexpected Elements producers who are living life in the slow lane. Ah, this is the life. Nice and slow. Are you enjoying yourself on that deck chair, Will? Ah, I didn't see you there, Alice. Yes, I am. Life is going by a bit fast at the moment, so I'm just taking a break. Oh, it's a shame there isn't a way to properly slow time down, so we could just make this afternoon last forever. Actually, there is, but we'd need a one-way ticket to the closest event horizon. The what now? You ought to spend your day near a black hole. Yeah, the gravity there is so strong, it warps space-time. Time slows right down the closer you get. To the outside world, time goes on as normal, but you'd look frozen. So I'd just be hanging out in space while time slows down for me? Exactly. It's known as time dilation, and it's the ultimate way to take a break. No deadlines, no interruptions. Oh yeah, until the black hole pulls you in forever. Well, yes, good point. But until then, time would feel like it's standing still, so eternal nap, no alarms. So I'd be stuck forever near you. That sounds like a slow form of torture. Hey, at least we'd both be on the slowest schedule ever. And I'd still be waiting for you to actually get things done. Thank you to Alice and Will coming to us from a lovely sounding Be Loud Glade. BBC Warning here. Hanging out in black holes can seriously damage your structural integrity. Leonie, where do you want to take us next, inspired by this week's theme of Fast? Well, it's not to an event horizon. I do have a curious story about wind speeds in the western desert of South Africa. The stage for this drama is in the Richtersveld. This is a succulent, resplendent desert environment. It straddles the border between South Africa and Namibia. OK, great scene setting. Tell me more. Well, this part of the subcontinent was hammered by a terrible drought between about 2015 and 2021. And many people living here noticed how parts of the Richtersveld were turning to dust bowl. And you can see it really clearly in the satellite images. These show an increase in the number of sand plumes, things that people living here had also been seeing and reporting on. And the locals, many of whom are from families of indigenous shepherding communities, were reporting that the wind seemed to be getting more ferocious. So they had an idea that faster winds might be contributing to desertification? Yes, although this hadn't been proven with weather station data. It was just first-person accounts. Researchers knew that they were likely to be a combination of factors at play. Decades of aggressive mining, grazing pressure, along with rising temperatures in the region and, of course, this recent extreme drought. So the wind definitely does contribute to spreading desert. It's notorious for whipping up these ferocious sand storms that can ruin the paintwork on a vehicle in a matter of hours. And worse than that, it can lay waste to plants, sandblasting them quite lethally. And, obviously, the more vegetation that gets killed in this way, the more ground is left exposed to the wind, allowing the desert to then spread downwind like an advancing fire line. And are faster wind speeds likely to be the result of climate change? Well, in places, it can be. The climate modelling for this part of the world suggests that wind speeds are likely to pick up, particularly as the temperatures over the land climb at a rate that's faster than the temperatures over the sea. This means there's going to be a bigger temperature gradient between the two, and that of course stirs the air to move faster. I see. So I suppose the question is, was this already happening in the Richtersveld, and therefore driving the rapidly spreading desert conditions? Well, after pouring over the data, it seems as though the wind speed and the direction or intensity hasn't actually changed. And this might sound like a bit of a damp swip, but it's not. It's still an important finding. What's most likely is that the increase in sand being transported by the wind makes it seem as though the wind is worse, and makes the sand storms more lethal, and then spreads the desert. OK. So just to be clear, the wind speed has stayed the same, but what's doing the damage is that there's more sand about. Do we know why there's more sand about? Yes. So basically you have a lot of grazing, and you have a lot of diamond mining. And as soon as you have any activity that kills the vegetation and exposes the sand, you have the ground is more vulnerable to being swept up by the wind. And then on top of that, it's getting hotter here, and we've had this extreme drought that lasted for many years, and that would kill off more vegetation as well. That would release more sand. It sounds like what started is some terrible positive feedback loop. Is there anything that scientists can do to protect the species that are at risk in areas like this that seem to be prone to turning into desert? There's really no single bullet in this situation. It's really complicated. It needs multiple approaches from many different players. Either way, it needs to happen at scale and at a speed that matches the freight train of the warming and drying that is really rageting up here. Thank you, Leonie, for sharing that with us. Now listeners, we'd love to hear from you. I want your stories on the subject of fast, whether that's your need for speed or your efforts not to put food in your face. You can email us at unexpected at bbc.co.uk or you can send us a message or voice note via WhatsApp. The number is plus 44 330 678 3080. Even more Unexpected Elements speeding towards us. But first, this. Hello and welcome to this week's Unexpected Elements quiz. I'm Noa. During the month of Ramadan, Muslims won't eat or drink during the hours of daylight. This fasting lasts the entire month, which can be 29 or 30 days. But one man fasted continuously for a lot longer. Angus Barberi holds the world record for fasting, which he set in 1966. But roughly how many days did Angus continually fast for? Was it A. 50 days, B. 100 days or C. 400 days? Angus Barberi holds the world record for the longest fast, subsisting only off water, coffee, tea, soda and vitamins. But roughly how long did he last? A. 50 days, B. 100 days or C. 400 days? Something to chew on, but don't take too long, because I'll be back in a flash for the answer. This is Unexpected Elements, where listeners are part of our science party. Yes, your curiosity shapes this show, because sometimes you want science answers, and we know the scientists who can help. It's time for Ask the Unexpected. This week's question comes from Andrew, who wrote, Dear Elementarians, I was hoping the latest broadcast might clear up something that's always puzzled me, but which I've been afraid to admit ignorance of. But I'll have to come clean and ask you directly, how does my bath towel work? Keep Up The Good Work, it's a great show, brilliant format, superbly presented. Thank you, Andrew, both for the compliment and for a great question. I think we've found the person to tackle this one. My name is Dr Sarah Wilkes. I'm the head of the Materials Library at the UCL Institute of Making. I look after an eclectic library of materials that contains everything from unusual self-healing concretes through to familiar materials like silicone rubber bra inserts and even toenails. Sarah is also our go-to for any toenail related questions, good to know. But for today, it's towels that we want to know about. Towels are a wondrous and thirsty piece of technology and they're perfectly designed to wick all moisture from our skin. But this hasn't happened by accident. It has taken decades of work by manufacturers and textile technologists to arrive at the pinnacle of achievements that is today's bath towel. The reasons why towels are much better at absorbing water than our skin, hair or even other fabrics is down to a combination of the chemical properties of the cellulose fibres used to make towels, the way that these fibres are then spun into a yarn, and the way that this yarn is then woven into a finished cloth. So in other words, the secret to a towel's superb absorbency lies both in its chemistry and its geometry. Most towels are made from cotton, although silk, synthetic and even nettle fibres have all been tried, but the reason we often fall back on cotton is that once processed, it's hydrophilic. When something's hydrophilic, it's attracted to water and easily bonds with it on a molecular level. The long chains of cellulose that make up the cotton fibres in your towel have lots of negatively charged parts to their molecular structure, and these attract the positively charged hydrogen atoms in water molecules. Some other common examples of hydrophilic materials show things that readily get mushy when exposed to even a hint of moisture include cardboard, sugar and gelatin. Human skin, on the other hand, is hydrophobic, thanks to all the fats and proteins that make up our skin. In addition to being hydrophilic, cotton fibres are also hollow, so there's plenty of space to store the water inside it until it evaporates. So for this reason, cotton is able to absorb up to 27 times its own weight in water, but it also tends to stay damp and clammy for a long time. So we have an already absorbent fibre, and this is then made even more porous by spinning it into a very open yarn structure. So there's plenty of space in the middle of the thread itself. The threads are like thin air-filled tubes of cotton that exert something called capillary pressure on any water that they come into contact with. Water molecules like to stick to the sides of these tiny hydrophilic cotton straws more than they like to stick to each other, so water is sucked up into the towel. Thank you very much, Dr Sarah Wilkes. What a fascinating response and thank you, Andrew, for the question. If you have any burning science question you'd like us to match up with an expert, what are you waiting for? Send them in. You can email unexpected at bbc.co.uk, you can send a message or a voice note via WhatsApp on plus 44 330 678 3080 or even my personal favourite, write to us. Unexpected Elements, BBC World Service, Cardiff, CF 10 4GA in the UK. We don't just love receiving your questions. We love hearing your thoughts on anything and everything we discuss on the programme. So let's rummage in the postbag and see who's been in touch this week. First email relates to our Valentine's episode on All Things Love, Tristan. Do you want to read this one? Sure. In your Valentine's episode, you talked about Love Technology, the first computer programme I said I love you to was as a kid in 1992. My friend had a DOS computer with Dr. Spezzo by Creative Labs. This AI psychologist would talk with you about your feelings, or more accurately, use a very synthetic male voice to repeat some pre-programmed line back in response to some key words you had written. The highlight by far was telling Dr. Spezzo, I love you, and having him occasionally reply in his robotic voice, ooh, my chips are melting. You can still play the game online, and someone kindly shared the underlying code which reveals answers he gives in response to certain key words like why and of course love. Some of these responses are dated, but if you ask him, are you intelligent, he may reply, are you intelligent enough to ask more intelligent questions? Yes, Unexpected Elements team, you are. Liz in London. I'm going to find this game. It sounds really good fun. But Liz said the first computer program, she said, I love you too, which seems to imply to me at minimum the existence of a second. At least one, a second computer program that she's told that she loves, maybe more. Liz, can you get back in touch with us and give us an entire rundown of all of the computer programs you've said I'd love you to? And also what your therapist is about that. Moving on, we have an email from John Keeble in Alicante, Spain who says, you requested from your faithful listeners our favorite giants of the natural world, or in this case, least favorite. To give you a bit of background, I was in my late 20s and I have a mortal fear of spiders. My most horrifying and embarrassing spider incident was on Koh Lanta in Thailand. We were staying in a delightful, if flimsy, bamboo and banana leaf bungalow that opened onto the sea. However, the bathroom downstairs was a windowless cell with the toilet on one side, the shower on the other. Above the shower, in the corner, lived the most bulbous, bright orange spider I have ever seen. When I showered, it was with much trepidation and I kept one eye open, monitoring the spider in case it made a move. After a few days of sharing the shower with this monster, I must admit to letting my guard down, and closed my eyes for a few moments under the shower. Once I realised what I had done, I immediately opened my eyes to see the spider was no longer in their corner and was nowhere to be seen. Taking the bathroom door with me, I ran down to the sea about ten metres away, naked, bar some soap bubbles. I got about five metres into the sea before I stopped running, and noticed the spider must have crawled on to the top of the door and was now hanging by a thread just a few centimetres from my face. The family-friendly Unexpected Elements would not allow the words really necessary to convey the fear I felt in such close proximity to a spider whose body now appeared to be pulsating. I put the door gently down on the sea and quickly moved away. My girlfriend, who was laughing far too heartily for my liking, had to go and retrieve the door. Anyone got any good spider stories? I once got bit by a wolf spider because there were some in my home in New Mexico, and I still actually have the scar from it. I'm pretty sure it was that I just kind of woke up one day and there's like a goose egg on my like lower back. It basically discolored the entire area of skin, so it looks like a big old sort of like birthmark on my sort of like lower back from where I got bit. So that's your tramp stamp. That's my tramp stamp. That's right. I was there trying to make me a blood brother with a wolf spider. I've got the scars to prove it. Thank you everyone for writing in. Do keep sending in your letters, emails, voice notes and text messages. That email address again, unexpected at bbc.co.uk and WhatsApp messages to plus 44 330 678 3080. So, the month of Ramadan has got us thinking about everything to do with fast. Tristan, you were up first. What story did you bring to the table? Dietary fasting and whether or not it's good for your health. Next, we looked at black holes and how they can slow down time. Then Leonie, what did you do? Expanding deserts and whether faster wind speeds might be contributing to these environments changing. And along the way, we've detoured into the science of why your bath towel gets you so dry so fast. Still to come on Unexpected Elements, we're joined by a physicist at CERN who spends her time smashing particles together at incredibly fast speeds. We find out why. Leonie brings us a story of an alien on her patch and I delve into the archives to share an incredible tale of a speedy regeneration that saved millions of lives. This is Unexpected Elements from the BBC World Service. I'm Marnie Chesterton in Cardiff, Wales, and I'm here with... Tristan Ahtone in Helsinki. And... Leonie Joubert in Clarence, South Africa. This is the show that looks at the science behind the news. And this week, we're thinking about all things fast. And so far, we found out if fasting can keep you healthy. We've pondered how fast time ticks near black holes, and discovered how speeding wind helps make a desert. But we couldn't talk about fast without checking in with the scientists creating impressive speeds. Joining us now is Claire Lee, a scientist at CERN, home to the Large Hadron Collider and the largest particle physics laboratory in the world. Welcome Claire. Thanks Marnie, it's great to be here. Now I know that at CERN you study particle collisions that happen at phenomenally high speeds but can you explain why examining these collisions is so important? So as scientists what we're really trying to do is figure out the universe, figure out how it works, the way it does, why it looks the way it does to us and one of the ways we do that as particle physicists is by smashing particles together and seeing what comes out of those collisions. Now I'm pretty sure that everybody is at least kind of familiar with the formula E equals MC squared and that formula really explains what we do in a nutshell. What that formula is telling us is that energy and mass are interchangeable. So if you have something with a lot of energy, you can convert that energy into mass or for example, you could take mass, convert it into energy and that's actually what we're doing when we collide protons inside the Large Hadron Collider. We are taking protons, we are speeding them up to 99.9999991% the speed of light, and when we collide them, because they have so much mass energy, we're able to create new particles inside those collisions. So the reason why we're trying to speed up these protons so fast is to give them more energy, which allows us to access heavier and heavier particles. So you used a lot of energy and created the elusive Higgs boson, and that was discovered at CERN, right? Can you tell us a bit more about it, why it's such a big deal? The Higgs boson was a big deal. It still is a big deal. And the reason why is because we have this thing that we call the standard model of particle physics. You know, like in chemistry, you have your periodic table of the elements, and then that's the set of all the elements that you could build up all the molecules and everything from. So in particle physics, we also have a set of fundamental building blocks, and those are things like electrons, photons, etc. This is described by the standard model. This was already formed back in the early 1960s, except that, as it stood at the time, all of the particles had zero mass, and that is not the universe that we live in. So a number of theoretical physicists in the 1960s proposed this idea that the universe lives in a field, and depending on how the particles get dragged on as they move through the field, that is what we view as mass. Now, the reason why we call it the Higgs is because of all the theorists who proposed this idea, Peter Higgs was the one who said, okay, well, if there's a field, then if we knock on the field, we should be able to see a particle. So the field should have a particle associated with it, and that's why we call this particle the Higgs boson. So, it took us from 1964 to 2012, but the Atlas and CMS experiments in 2012 announced that they had discovered this thing called the Higgs boson, which basically proves that this is the way that almost everything gets mass. I see. Yes, I remember the build up to that. It was a really exciting time bringing Leonie in here. What actually happens when the particles collide? What happens is at the speeds that these protons are traveling, they're not just like little billiard balls that bounce off each other. A proton is made up of smaller things called quarks and gluons, which hold them, glue them together. It's actually these quarks and gluons that collide. The easiest way to make a Higgs boson is when you have two protons coming together and actually a gluon from each of those protons fuse together head on. The Higgs boson doesn't live very long. It transforms into other particles within a billionth of a second. So what you actually have flying out from the collision point is normal everyday stuff like electrons and photons, muons, that sort of thing. Our detector has to be able to catch all of these and put them back together to see did they come from a Higgs boson or not. And I should mention we have 100 billion protons passing each other every 25 nanoseconds. And of these 100 billion protons we're getting at the moment, we get about 65 protons actually colliding. So 65 protons are colliding every 25 nanoseconds. That's around a billion collisions per second. And our detector has to be fast enough to track all of these outgoing debris particles and measure them and decide whether this is an interesting event that we want to save or whether it's something boring that we've already seen a million times before. How fast again do the particles need to be going for those collisions to occur? So at the LHC, we managed to get them 99.9999991% of the speed of light. And how do you make the particles go that fast? So the Large Hadron Collider is a 27-kilometer circumference ring. And we have what we call radiofrequency cavities, which is very clever. It basically works like, you know, if you're pushing your kid or your friend on a swing, right? And as the swing comes, you give it a push and you give it some more energy. And as long as you get the timing right, then you push them higher, higher, higher, higher, with more and more and more energy. The similar way that the radiofrequency cavities work, what happens is you have a bunch of protons coming in and you have an electric field. And the electric field is set up so that the protons are accelerated into the cavity. And then once they go in, you flip the electric field around with opposite polarity, so the protons continue to be pushed along in the same direction. And then they go all the way around the 27 kilometers and back again for another kick. When we fill up the LHC, it takes about 30 minutes of sending the protons around, giving them kicks and simultaneously ramping up the magnetic field strength to keep them going around in the same circle. It takes about 30 minutes to take them from the 450 giga electron volts to the six and a half-ish tera electron volts, which is where we collide them. So you've mentioned the detector, Claire. That's kind of your speciality, right? You're in charge of that. Yep, that's right. It sounds like you've got these incredible speeds at which these collisions are happening. Is your tracker actually up to the job? I mean, it needs to be presumably incredibly fast. Well, yeah, it's been in there since LHC first started working in 2008. So, yes, I am very pleased to say that it is still going strong. We will actually be replacing it when we start the long shutdown in the middle of next year. So as I mentioned, right now, we have about 60-odd proton-proton collisions every 25 nanoseconds. We're going to have a long shutdown, and then we're actually going to be upgrading the Large Hadron Collider. And what we're going to be doing is going from 65 collisions per 25 nanoseconds to about 200, maybe even 300. And our current tracker is not going to be able to handle that. So we're building a brand-new tracker that will be installed by the end of the decade. I am curious about what this data actually looks like. Is this visualized? Is this looking at like a spreadsheet? Like, how are you dealing with this data? So that's a great question. We have a really big spreadsheet that lists all of the particles that we see. So you will have electron 1 and its momentum, energy, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then now every 25 nanoseconds, you're getting another spreadsheet, another spreadsheet. Actually, there is so much data coming out that it is impossible for us to save it at all. So we have to employ what we call trigger algorithms, which make clever selections on. So for example, the trigger will take our spreadsheet and look at it and say, oh, okay, this looks like something I've seen before many times. We don't need to keep that. Oh, this looks like it could maybe have a signature of a Higgs boson, and let's keep that. And this very, very fast algorithm has to filter the data as it's coming out of the detector. So in terms of how much filtering happens, you can imagine, like if you're standing in front of a waterfall and the waterfall is all the data that's coming out and you have a cup, and you can take a cup at a time, that is how much data we're able to save compared to how much is being produced. So we have to be very clever with our selection algorithms to make sure that we're selecting the stuff that we actually want to look at it. We're not accidentally throwing away signature of dark matter or something. And Claire, you mentioned at the beginning, this is ultimately because you want to understand how the universe fits together. How do these particle collisions actually feed back into that? So what we are trying to do is really understand what the universe looked like at different slices of its life. So if we wanted to see what the universe looks like nowadays, you can use a telescope and look out at the stars and look back in time, depending on how far away you're looking. When we're going back to really the first couple minutes of the universe's life, the only way you can do that is by recreating the conditions at that moment in time. And the forces that we have today are actually, they're kind of, they're different from the forces that existed in the universe in those early moments. So what we're doing is we are, by being able to go to a specific energy, we're able to take us like a slice of the universe at this very early period in time and really study exactly what the particles were doing then, what the forces looked like, how things behaved. Because if we understand that, you know, then we can understand how the universe has evolved and why it looks like it does today. More pieces of the jigsaw puzzle of our universe and how it all fits together. Claire, thank you so much for joining us and giving us a glimpse into the mind-boggling speeds needed to make the smashing physics you do at CERN possible. No problem. Thank you very much for the invitation. Still to come, Leonie is going to bring us a story about aliens being introduced into her neck of the woods and I pay tributes to one of the most prolific blood donors the world has ever seen. That's coming up after this. It's time for the Unexpected Elements quiz answer with me, Noa. Earlier, I told you about Angus Barberi, the man who holds the record for the longest fast. He survived on only tea, coffee, water, soda water and vitamins. I asked you how long he lasted without solid food and give you three options to choose from. Was it roughly A. 50 days, B. 100 days or C. 400 days? Well, the correct answer is C. That's right. Angus Barberi, born in 1940 in Scotland, spent an incredible 382 days living without solid food from 1965 to 1966 while in Maryfield Hospital in Dundee. During this time, he lost 133 kilograms. This is Unexpected Elements and every week the team reads through a lot of stories to bring you the best of the science out there. And every so often, someone brings us a story that maybe hasn't been picked up by the mainstream news, which we think deserves a little more attention. Leonie, I think you have something for us this week. So, this week, I'm going full Sigourney Weaver on you. I'm going hunting for an alien. All other priorities rescinded. Tell us more. Well, I'm going in search of a little alien wasp that comes from Australia and was recently released into a silver-wattle population near the town of Clarence, which is on the border between South Africa and the country that no one has heard of, aka Lesotho. So the hope is that this little wasp will clobber the flowers of the silver-wattle tree, which has gone feral in our grasslands in the east of the country. Okay, South Africans are introducing an alien or a non-native species to try and control another alien invasive species that's getting out of control. That's exactly right. In South Africa, we've got a huge problem with invasive alien plants. Many of these plants were introduced from other countries for timber or tannins or to just beautify our gardens. But when they go feral in a landscape that is outside of their home environment, where they would have natural predators and other environmental factors that would keep them in check, they become like an oil spill, except it's an oil spill that lives and breathes and replicates itself. So when you say they go feral, what kinds of problems are they causing? Many of these trees are just insatiably thirsty. So they move into our wetlands and our water catchments and they clog them up, they dry the rivers and streams, they cause the most terrible erosion, they harden the soil, and they also poison the ground so that nothing else can grow under their canopies. And one of the worst offenders in our grasslands is the silver wattle. In spite of years of effort to clear it, we just can't without a biocontrol agent. So biocontrol agent, this is where the wasps come in. Oh yes. So South Africa has a terrific history with the use of biocontrol agents. We're one of the leaders globally as a way of tackling invasive alien plants. And this specific wasp is making a name for itself because of how effective it is in controlling the silver wattle. It was bred for years in very careful captivity in a quarantine-type environment in a facility in Cape Town. And this gall-forming wasp was then released quite successfully in the Western Cape. And the researchers noticed very quickly that it was causing the kind of damage to the plants that they heard it would. Now two months ago, the same little wasp was released here in Clarence as a second test case. So what do these wasps do when they come into contact with the silver wattle? This wasp lays its eggs in the wattle tree's flowers. This causes the plant to go into a full-on defensive mode. The tree puts all of its energy into growing these protective galls instead of putting the energy into producing seed. And so that effectively stops the waffle from spreading and growing across bigger and bigger areas? Yes, absolutely. In fact, I'm going to be joining some researchers in the field in the next month as they put out seed traps in the infested areas, so that they can begin this long, slow process of seeing how the seed production changes over time. If the wasp has established itself, they'll see seed numbers going down over the seasons. I mean, what aspect of this story did you think was important to bring to people's attention? Many of us don't realise just how important our grasslands are for us, both in terms of regulating our water system, giving us grazing, and then of course, they mop up huge amounts of carbon pollution from the atmosphere, which helps regulate the global climate. So it's an ecosystem service that is more than just a regional importance. Are there any kind of barriers in place to stop this from spiralling out of control? Maybe, you know, stopping this wasp from laying its eggs or attacking a plant that you don't want to attack? You know, yes, there always is the chance of mistakes, but we have a really good track record in this field of managing these agents and testing them very carefully. There's some really interesting research to show that if we hadn't released certain biocontrol agents into certain populations of invasive plants, they would be completely out of control. Each week, my bosses allow me a personal pick, something I've heard from the recent news, which I can unpick a bit using the extensive library of audio programmes we at the BBC have amassed over the decades in our archives. And I couldn't not mention the passing of one of the most delightful humans I've heard of. Tristan, Leonie, have either of you heard of James Harrison? I have not. I have not heard of James Harrison. Great, because I get to tell you about him. OK, you might not know his name. You might have heard about his recent death. He was a national hero in Australia, where he was known as the man with the golden arm. He was a very special and prolific blood donor. And here he is, aged 78, talking to Matthew Bannister on the BBC World Service programme Outlook about how he got the blood donation bug. At the age of 14, I had a massive chest surgery, resulting in the loss of one lung. And I received 13 units of blood. And from then on, I said to my father, who was also a blood donor at that time, that as my life had been saved, I would do the same. And as soon as I turned 18, I became a blood donor. And I have been donating for 60 years. So because your life had been saved by all that blood, you decided to give blood. When did you find out that there was something special about your blood? In 1966, I was called into the senior doctor's office. And he explained that they apparently had developed this antibody. And I already had it in my system. And would I be the guinea pig, basically. So they insured me for a million dollars. I checked with the wife, and she was quite happy to get a million dollars. Why did they insure you for a million dollars? In case they did some harm to you? In case something happened. What actually happened was a lifetime of James giving blood, his special blood, which contained a rare antibody called anti-D, which doctors need to use as medication. James did a great job of explaining. So here's his summary. Well, they need it for the prevention of the hemolytic disease of the newborn, which results when the mother is a negative blood group and the partner is a positive blood group. She has the baby, the first child born normally, and she releases into her system the nasties, and they float around to go back into the next baby when she conceives. So now they inject them with what I produce, and that kills those nasty antibodies. If they're not treated, in severe cases, it can lead to brain damage and stillbirth. So the antibodies that you produce are saving babies' lives. Yeah, 2.4 million, so I'm told. Let's just pause at this point. James was 88 years old when he died. So breaking that number down, 2.4 million lives, he saved 75 children a day. So that's a life every 20 minutes. Let's have a look at the donations needed to make those numbers. So in the UK, they recommend that if you donate blood, that you do it 3 or 4 times a year. Now James was a little bit more in demand, and so he had a different schedule. 32 times a year we're allowed to give it, which is about once every 10 days. But because I caravan, I give it weekly, and then I might have a gap of 2 or 3 weeks, and then I come back again and give another couple. You know, they said I filled in excess of 2 44-gallon drums. 2 44-gallon drums. And are there any ill effects for you of all of this? No, never had one ill effect in 60 years. Which is fortunate for such a prolific donor. I love that they fitted this in around his caravanning schedule, by the way. Since we're looking at the subject of fast in this show, I did start wondering about how long it would take James's body to remake the blood that he's lost. Because if the Blood Donation Centre are saying three times a year, he's doing it every 10 days. There appears to be a mismatch there. Now digging into the BBC archives, I found an episode of Crowdscience, which finally tackled a topic of regeneration. Tristan, Leonie, have you heard the line that it takes seven years for your body to replace all the cells? Yes, I definitely have heard that. Yeah, well, it turns out it's kind of a popular myth. It turns out it's more complicated than that, says molecular biologist Martin Hetzer. Take a listen to this. If you had a way to determine the age of each cell in your body at your 100th birthday, you would find that some cells are as old as you are. They would celebrate you, they would cheer with you, they would blow out the candles with you. And then there are this other group of cells that might be actually confused that you celebrate your 100th birthday because they say, well, we're only three weeks old, or we're only a few months old. And those are cells that make up your gut, that make up your immune system. And then there are cells in between. So you have really a whole range from, you know, 100 years, like a century, all the way down to a few weeks. And that's all in one body. So some cells are as old as you. But blood cells and your immune antibodies turn over at a much faster rate. So you make two million new red blood cells a second, which sounds like fast work and means your blood cell count can recover in a matter of weeks. However, you may remember James was donating every week sometimes. Now the secret to doing this successfully was he donated blood plasma, which is the watery fluid that contains the red blood cells, not the cells themselves. So that contains the special antibodies and the blood plasma can regenerate amazingly fast, recovering in a mere 24 hours. So that's why it's appropriate to this week's Fast Show. So we end with the tale of multi-million lifesaver James Harrison, all thanks to his fast blood. And we started with a different kind of fast, the sort that makes your blood sugar levels drop. And then where did you take us, Tristan? Intermittent fasting and its potential health benefits as well as its potential health problems. And then we looked at the sites of black holes and how they can slow down time. Then Leonie, where next? We went off to the Richtersfeld deserts to look at wind speed and how the place is turning to a dust bowl. Then we were joined by a physicist from CERN who filled us in on the mind-bendingly fast experiments they carry out there and what they can tell us about the origins of the universe. And Leonie, you brought us another story from your part of the world that's gone under the radar. What was that one about? A small little alien wasp from Australia that has been released in the neighbourhood near me because it's going to tackle the silver wattle and stop it from growing. And how fast time has flown. So all that's left for me to do is thank our panellists for this week. Supersonic Speed in South Africa, thank you Leonie Joubert. It has been delightful. And Hypersonic in Helsinki, Finland, thank you Tristan Ahtone. Obaha, Ketos and thank you for having me. I'm Marnie Chesterton, the producer was William Hornbrook with Alice Lipscombe-Southwell, Harrison Lewis, Debbie Kilbride and Noa Dowling. Join us next week for another round of Unexpected Elements.