Hello, Nice White Parents listeners. This is Chana here. I'm dropping in to tell you about a new serial show I think you will very much enjoy. It's called The Trojan Horse Affair. It's a story told by my colleague from This American Life, Brian Reed, and Dr. Turned journalist Hamza Sayed. The Trojan Horse Affair is the story of a single strange letter that explodes into a national scandal. Brian and Hamza set out to determine who wrote that letter and why. There are so many things I really enjoyed about The Trojan Horse Affair. It's a mystery, it pulls you along, it's revealing and emotional. There's also a part about schools and racism, which if you're subscribed to this feed, I assume is up your alley. So all of that is very compelling. But for me, one of my favorite parts of the show is just getting to hear Brian and Hamza unravel this mystery together and hear how these two very specific people react very differently to interviews that they're doing and revelations they come to along the way. It gets tense and messy and they don't shy away from it. Anyway, it's great and you should go listen to it. Here's Brian and Hamza with the trailer. I happened to be in Birmingham, England one night when this journalism student came up to me at an event. He was talking fast, like I might walk away any second. There's a tsunami that hit Birmingham. Birmingham does not get national attention. It was a circus, mate. I can't even describe to you. His name was Hamza Syed, and he wanted help on his first ever story about a mystery in Birmingham, his hometown, that no one had ever solved. It had begun a few years earlier, when news of a strange letter exploded in the press. A leaked letter outlining a plot by hardline Muslims. The letter looked to be... Well, Hamza, you want to explain this part? The letter looked to be a secret communique between Islamic extremists who had been infiltrating the city's schools in a supposed plot called Operation Trojan Horse. The letter was bizarre, unsigned, incoherent, badly Xeroxed, yet still it sparked one of the biggest school scandals in British history. Government investigators descended on Birmingham. The country beefed up its counter-terror policy. By the time it all died down, schools were revamped, teachers lost their jobs, some people were banned for life from education. The fallout has been huge. Prime Minister David Cameron, as we said, is calling a special meeting of the government's extremism task force. What I always found suspicious about this whole affair is that this dodgy letter suggesting extremists were taken over our schools. Nobody ever found out who wrote it or why. Remarkably, none of the investigators even tried. So I convinced Brian Reid over here that we should go for it. Is this about to be the first radio interview we've ever done? Hams and I spent years running this down. I'll give you a clue. Who is the letter defending? Is the question you have to answer. But figuring out who wrote the Trojan Horse letter. I didn't write it. I don't know who wrote it. What might you have to find out who wrote it? I'm not the author of the Trojan Horse letter. That was only the first mystery we were up against. It started to seem like officials knew more than what they were letting on. All the way from a local primary school to the highest levels of British government. And that Homs and I were poking at something that people did not want to talk about. Can you give us a bit of details about that situation? No. It is particularly important that I don't. She answered, and she just immediately started saying, I'm busy, I'm busy, and started trying to shut the door on me. You look all confused. It's just a very unusual line of questioning. Why? I can't talk to you about… Why can't you talk about that? Sorry. You're leaving us? You're waving us goodbye? Coming February 3rd, from Serial Productions and The New York Times, I'm Brian Reed. And I'm Hamza Sayed. It's The Trojan Horse Affair, a mystery in eight parts that a lot of people don't want you to hear. Yeah, hey. I just got a letter of threatening injunction.