I have a secret. It's a horrible little habit. Last week, I did it. Today, I'm doing it. In fact, I'm doing it right now. You see, I like taking my shoes off wherever I go. Whether it's cross-legged on the office chair, at lunch, or even speaking to you over the microphone, I'm always in my socks. No, this isn't a prank, but it is disgusting. I'm Caroline Steel, and from the BBC World Service, this. Producer Harry, that is so unkind. So listeners, I do this thing where I like to take my shoes off in the office and the studio and anywhere where I want to feel comfortable. And Harry has used this as an opportunity to not only impersonate me, but also be unkind about my feet choices. Workplace bullying. Workplace bullying. But tell me, Caroline, why are you so comfortable saying it out loud? I've been taking my shoes off for a while now, so yeah, I do feel quite comfortable in my socks. And you're not Caroline Steel, you're producer Harrison Lewis, so get out the studio. I'm Caroline Steel, from the BBC World Service, this is Unexpected Elements. As always, I'm joined by two lovely journalists. Phillys Mwatee in Nairobi, Kenya. Hi, Phillys. Hello, Caroline. Who Jumbo? So Jumbo, Phillys. And we're joined by Camilla Mota from São Paulo, Brazil. Welcome, Camilla. Hello, Caroline. Oi. On Unexpected Elements, each week, we look at a new story that you might have heard of and use that as a chance to talk about stories from the wonderful world of science that you've probably not heard of. Here's what caught our attention this week. Do you know what day this is, Katie? Yes, Mrs Cooper, it's Friday. It must be almost April the 1st. Time to watch our backs and double-check each newspaper story, just in case we fall for an April Fool. It's a sort of red-letter day for the unimaginative prankster in your office. But no jokes are pranks here. The journalist who wrote it is called Shirtso Primavera, Joke of Spring. Why did we not get that earlier? Why did you fall for that? That's right, coming up is one of my favourite days of the year. April Fool's Day. On April 1st, across the world, people will be playing jokes and trying to pull off pranks. Think replacing sugar with salt, announcing you've won the lottery, or impersonating colleagues. As you might have guessed from producer Harry pretending to be me at the start of the show, this programme is going to be packed full of tricks and hoaxes. Camilla, you're up first. What trick have you got for us? There was a pretty exciting study that came out November last year showing that elephants might also like to tease each other. Interesting. OK, I probably shouldn't be that surprised because elephants are pretty smart, right? They've been shown to solve problems, peel bananas, that kind of thing. Yep. But in this case, there's a twist. OK, so scientists in Germany were researching elephants' ability to use tools. They gave a host to five elephants in the Berlin Zoo. And as time passed, observed, they started using it to shower in quite creative ways. Mary, for example, a 54-year-old Asian elephant, really stood out, so much so she was nicknamed the Queen of Showering. Isn't that a cute nickname? That is quite cute. Although if I'm going to be Queen of something, Queen of Showering would be quite disappointing. Yeah, I'd rather be Queen of something else. Mary developed a range of techniques to water different parts of her body. She grasped the hose behind its tip with her trunk to use it as a stiff showerhead, and then to reach her back, switched to a lasso strategy, grasping the hose farther up and swinging it over her body. But then, here comes the twist. Something unexpected happened. A 12-year-old Asian elephant named Anchali started trying to interrupt Mary's shower by squeezing, clamping, and even standing on the hose to stop the water flow. Standing on the hose on purpose. So not just like, I don't know, accidentally walking over it or something. They know that it was intentional. Yeah, one of the authors of the study said in an interview at first, they were skeptical that Anchali was indeed trying to sabotage Mary, but then she developed other ways to interrupt the water flow, and they were convinced it was some sort of prank. Yes, a naughty prank, in fact. So this sounds like bullying, though, you know? Maybe she thinks it's funny. I don't know. Scientists were actually torn between the two, you know? Mary sometimes acted aggressively towards Anchali, so she could be trying to get back at her in a way. So it would be bullying at the end of the day. So they're not sure whether or not elephants play tricks on each other, or if elephants bully each other. Exactly. Yeah. And that's why another question that popped into their heads was what all this means for elephants in their natural environments, right? So do they play tricks in the wild? Do they bully each other in the wild? Now I want to know. Yeah, me too. And we'll keep our eyes peeled for any further research. Now, from cheeky elephants to cheeky producers, here's Will and Imaan with this week's Fact File. Will, why are you standing in the middle of the stream? Oh, hi Imaan. Well, as this is my last Fact File for a while, I thought I'd better find a new hobby. I'm going to get me some gold. Um, you know you're not going to find any real gold around here, right? I already have. Look. That's just worthless pyrite, also known as fool's gold. And it looks like we've found the fool. Oi. Fool's gold recently played a part in the discovery of a whole new species. Oh, you know, I heard about this. Didn't researchers find an amazing fossil of a new species of arthropod in the US entirely preserved in fool's gold? Yes. It's called Lomancus edgcumbe, and it belongs to the same group as spiders, centipedes and insects. Scientists think it was alive 450 million years ago, and offers clues on how arthropods evolved appendages on their heads, like the antennae of insects and the pincers of spiders and scorpions. You know what? That actually is pretty impressive. I'm going to head back in, though. I've got an episode to produce. Are you coming? I think I'll stay here a bit longer. You never know, I might make a ground-breaking discovery of my own. All right then. See you later. If she was a real mineral enthusiast, she'd have seen the study from Australia showing that fool's gold can actually have tiny amounts of real gold trapped inside it. I'm going to be rich. Who's the fool now? I'm not sure what's more ambitious, striking it rich with fool's gold or accidentally uncovering ancient evolutionary secrets. Either way, good luck, Will. Phillys, you're up next. What have you got for us? Oh, so have you both heard of Piltdown Man? Piltdown Man? No, I don't think so. Okay, so here it is. Piltdown Man was believed to be the missing link in human evolution, but he wasn't. In fact, he's one of the most famous scientific hoaxes. Okay, so if he's not a missing link in human evolution, then what is he? Okay, so he was a collection of skull fragments, Caroline. First, it was discovered by Charles Dawson, an amateur archaeologist. So Dawson wrote to his friend, a paleontologist called Arthur Smith Woodward. And together, they continued excavation. So they were digging up and finding several human-like skull fragments, you know, one molar teeth, stone tools and fossilized animals. Together, in 1912, they announced their discovery, which they claimed belonged to a new species of alihominy, Anthropos Dawsoni, or the Piltdown Man. Interesting, although it sounds suspicious. And this is just the beginning, Caroline. So the UK human evolution research community enthusiastically embraced, you know, the find and people wanted to believe it was true. But my guess is it wasn't true. It wasn't. But now the hoax was only revealed in 1953, which is 40 years after it was presented by Dawson and Smith Woodward. Scientists at Oxford University took another look at the skull. And this time round, they used a new technique called fluorine dating. The team discovered that the fragments found belonged in fact to a number of humans and apes that had been carefully stained and treated to look older than they were. So sneaky. So were Dawson and Smith Woodward working together on this or were other people involved? OK, so they were, they had recruited a few other people while excavating. A priest, for example, Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, a volunteer called Martin Hinton, even the creator of Sherlock Holmes, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. But no one could figure out which of them were on the hoax. It was a proper, who had done it? So Phillys, did they work out who did it or is it still a mystery? In 2009, a research team from Liverpool, John Mords University, led by Isabel DeGroote, took yet another look at the skull. After seven long years, she published her findings. And guess what she found? She found all the teeth belonged to one orangutan, which is suspected, you know, could have been picked up by, you know, in fact, at a curiosity shop. So a curiosity shop, that's one of those places where you can kind of buy like old knick-knacks, antiques, fun things. They used to be a lot more common. She also found a party-like substance all over different fragments, most probably used to cover up any scratches, you know, the forger or forgers in this case, made when preparing the bonds. She even found pebbles stuffed into the hollows of the bonds. You know, fossilized bonds are noticeably heavier than recent bonds, as you see. So, weighing up the evidence now, the group concluded that the hawks was probably pulled by one person, fooling the rest of the team and the entire scientific community at the same time. So the group believes probably Dawson was most likely to have carried out the forgery because, you know, he was an amateur fossil hunter, so he knew how to fool other scientists. But he was also desperate for acceptance and recognition within the UK scientific community. In fact, the group says that he persistently requested to join the Royal Society to no avail. I mean, that is bad science, but I'm a tiny bit impressed he managed to pull it off for that long. Thank you so much, Phillys. Listeners, we want to hear about your proudest pranks. Perhaps you've announced your new career as a professional yodeler, swapped some contacts around in your friend's phone, or maybe you've convinced your partner Binday has actually been moved to Tuesday. Big or small, we want to hear about it. You can email us at unexpected at bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on plus 44 330 678 3080 or you can write to us at Unexpected Elements, BBC World Service, Cardiff CF 10 4GA. Phillys, Camilla, have either of you ever pulled off a really good prank? No, I'm not good with pranks. I'm a scaredy scaredy person and I overthink so I'm like, it might be small, it might look like it's a small prank to me but then it might have a big effect and so I just say no. I have a memory of one which I was so so so pleased about but it was a long time ago. I remember one time putting cling film over the loo seat and I have three brothers and I still don't know which one used the loo but one of them didn't realise that there was cling film over the toilet. Well listeners, I hope that gives you some inspiration. We're looking forward to hearing from you. Hello and welcome to this week's Unexpected Elements quiz with me, Will. Contrary to popular belief, scientists can be a barrel of laughs and some even have a few tricks up their sleeve. But which of the following pranks from the world of science did not happen? Is it A, a study claiming that shark fetuses cannibalise each other in the womb to eliminate offspring from other fathers? B, researchers at CERN declaring that they discovered the Force, the supernatural power from Star Wars? Or C, a paper published in the journal Nature, stating that dragons were real and that climate change could lead to their resurgence? One more time, which of the following is not a real scientific prank? A, cannibal shark fetuses? B, CERN discovering the Force from Star Wars? Or C, dragons are real? It's not a trick question. I'll be back later with the answer. Next up, we have a section of the show called Ask the Unexpected, where we essentially act like a nerdy matchmaking service, connecting your question to a scientist with the answers. And here's this week's question. Hello, Unexpected. I'm Sarah from New Zealand, and I have a little question for you. If you fed a group of people exactly the same amount and type of food over a period of time, would they produce the same amount of poo? We really enjoy your show and look forward to hearing the answer. Thank you, Sarah. What a question. Phillys, Camilla, before we hear from the expert, I wanna know what's your gut reaction. I don't think so. I mean, my gut reaction tells me no. What that we produce different amounts of poo from each other? Yes. Yeah, our bodies are different. We process food differently, so different amounts of poo. Okay, well, let's find out what the science says. Here's our expert. I'm Henrik Royer and I'm an associate professor at Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports at University of Copenhagen. So Henrik, we'd all love to know, would these hypothetical people in Sarah's scenario all produce the same amount of poo? So that's an excellent question. Actually, no. Most likely people will have different amounts of poo and also their content of the poo might be slightly different. And the reason for that is basically that we are all different inside our gut. So we know that, for example, their passage time, the time it takes food to travel through the system is highly variable among individuals, it varies from 12 hours up to more than 72 hours. And that means that simply the time that where nutrients can be absorbed varies from individual to individual. And that basically means that the amount of calories that we think are being absorbed might be different from individual to individual. And ultimately, it also means that the output in the end will be different. On top of that, we also know that the microbes that lives in our intestine, particularly in the large intestine, they are also highly different from individual to individual. And these microbes, they play a crucial role in extracting additional energy from the diet. So the number of calories in the feces will be variable from individual to individual. And current estimates says that actually if people consume the same amount of calories, the excreted calories would vary between 1 to 15 percent of the consumed calories. So that might not sound of a lot, but over time that could actually mean quite a lot in terms of weight gain, for example. To our best knowledge, this is how we understand it right now, but we actually need more and more control studies and we are currently setting up exactly such a study at University of Copenhagen where we are to investigate exactly how many calories we excrete and how the excretion of calories depend on our microbes in our gut. Thank you, Henrik Royer, and thank you, listener Sarah, for sending in your question. Now, I'm going to keep us on this smelly theme. Phillys, how much gas do you think humans produce every day? OK, so I'd say probably one litre? One litre, OK. Camilla, do you want to lock in your answer? That would be my guess, yeah. Around a litre or ten farts? I don't know, I'm just going crazy here. We actually produce four to five litres of gas a day. So you could fill a typical water bottle about ten times with your daily gas. That means a lot of farts. The average person does about 20 per day. Twenty. Yeah, twenty. This is coming from a scientist. And all that gas comes from bacteria in your gut that Henrik mentioned. And everyone's gut microbiome is different, but we can broadly split humans into two groups. Whether their gut bacteria make mostly methane, that's a odourless carbon based gas, or hydrogen sulphide. And the group that you're in determines whether or not your farts are smelly. And smelly people make hydrogen sulphide. Listeners, if like Sarah, you have a science question you'd like us to match up with a scientist, please do send them to us. Our email address is unexpected at bbc.co.uk. Or you can send us a message or voice note via WhatsApp on plus 44 330 678 3080. And you can even write to us at Unexpected Elements, BBC World Service, Cardiff CF 10 4GA. And you don't just send us your questions, you also send us your emails, WhatsApp messages, postcards, recipes, all sorts. So let's open up the inbox and see who's been in touch this week. The first email relates to an episode I recently presented on the theme of Upside Down, which was inspired by an empty overturned camper van that was found in the French countryside. Phillis, you were on that episode with me. Do you want to read this one? It says, you left us hanging for the accident reasoning behind the leading item of the French Upside Down camper van. Why even mention it? Regards, Terry Leinberger. Thank you for getting in touch, Terry. I'm sorry for the confusion, but I'm afraid it was a total mystery. Although if anyone listening knows what happened, then please do get in touch. And we also received this email from Paul Stamler in Missouri in the US. It's related to a story in that same episode about rhinos being transported by hanging them upside down. He says, if I were to see elephants hanging upside down from a helicopter, those would be... Unexpected Elephants. Our listeners are just amazing. I'm always here for a good pun. I love this next email from listener Liz, which was inspired by Mali's episode on smell last week. Camilla, do you want to read this one? I was listening to your program last night and it made me grin as usual. I love hearing about exciting science and the people are always really engaging. I recently quit smoking, congratulations please, and realized that I've been missing out on the olfactory dimension at the Turkish baths. Yesterday, for example, the essential oils smelt so strong it was an amazing sensory experience. The downside is that I remembered humans are really quite smelly, but that's all part of life. Thank you for reading and for making the brilliant show. Well, huge congratulations on quitting smoking, Liz. Yeah, very impressive. And experiencing a heightened sense of smell after smoking is quite common because nicotine dulls smell receptors in your nose, and then once people quit, these receptors often regenerate, leading to this heightened sensitivity to smells. Phillys, Camilla, have either of you ever quit smoking? No, I can't relate because I've never smoked. Yep, me neither. And my borderline, canine sense of smell is so important to me that I wouldn't take the chance of jeopardizing it, I think. Yeah. So to put it in perspective, at home, I'm officially in charge of smelling food in the fridge and giving the verdict if it's still good to go or if it's truly, truly expired. Oh, that is not a job I would want. You've got one who's got to go in with your nose and decide if the milk is off. No, thank you. I'm kind of proud of it. It's a huge responsibility, though, you know. That's true. Yeah. Thank you, everyone, for writing in. If you want to get in touch, we would love to hear from you. Our email address is Unexpected at bbc.co.uk, or you can send us a message or voice note via WhatsApp on plus 44 330 678 3080. So, we've been telling tales of tricks and hoaxes, all in anticipatory celebration of April Fool's Day. Camilla, what story did you bring? Elephants playing pranks on each other. And what about you, Phillys? I talked about one of the most significant scientific hoaxes, the Piltstone Mine. And we answered a question from a listener that I'm sure you've long been wondering too. If everyone eats the same amount of food, does the same amount come out the other end? Still to come, scientists might have found a good use of the Zika virus. Also, did you know that aliens invaded in 1938? I share the full story. And we're joined by the director of the world's only magic lab. This is Unexpected Elements from the BBC World Service. I'm Caroline Steel in Cardiff, Wales, and I'm here with Phillys Mwatee in Nairobi, Kenya, and Camilla Mota in São Paulo, Brazil. So far, we've heard how elephants prank each other with hoses. We've unveiled one of science's biggest hoaxes of all time. And now for our next trick, I'm gonna conjure up Gustav Kuhn, Associate Professor of Psychology at the University of Plymouth and Director of their Magic Lab, Gustav, are you there? Hello. Welcome to Unexpected Elements. I've got a very important first question for you. What's the dress code at your Magic Lab? I'm picturing sort of black top hats. Pop hats, capes and magic wands. Perfect. But I can see you now because we're hooked up via a video call. You've chosen to take your cape off for the recording. Yes, I have. And actually, to be honest, most of the people in my lab are not magicians either. Interesting. Okay, so what do you get up to in your lab? So in the Magic Lab, we basically use magic as a way of uncovering some of the mysteries of the human mind. Magicians have developed really powerful techniques to manipulate what we see, how we think. And our psychologists were interested in these techniques. And so we study these tricks to learn more about how the brain works. Okay, so you sort of study the psychology behind magic because in a way, magicians have already worked out a lot of psychology to make their tricks work. Yeah, so for example, magicians often use misdirection to misdirect what you see, so they use lots of different cues. And our psychologists were interested in examining these cues and testing these cues in the laboratory to find out more about how people can miss things that are happening in front of their eyes, for example. And how do we miss things that are happening in front of our eyes? Well, there's lots of different ways you can do this. The easiest one is just by distracting your attention. Rather than processing all of the information that's out there, we systematically just select the stuff that's of importance. And if I can misdirect your attention, then that means you can miss things that are happening right in front of your eyes. And how do you misdirect someone's attention? Do you just literally say, hey, look over there, and people do as they're told? That would be a really core form of misdirection, because it's very obvious. So for misdirection to work, the audience can't be aware of the fact that they're being misdirected. So a really simple way is to use my eye gaze. So if I'm looking at my other hand on the left, then that will automatically attract your attention to the left. Or I can use other senses as well, so sound, so I can snap my fingers, and that sound will capture your attention. Or language as well. So if I really want to capture your attention, I can ask you a question, and that makes it very difficult for you to ignore me, and you will focus your attention to my face. And that means I can do lots of sneaky business that you'll never be able to see. It reminds me of that video. Is it of people dancing or something, and then someone dressed up in a gorilla costume walks across the background. And the first time I watched it, I didn't notice the gorilla at all. And then someone says, hey, did you notice a gorilla in the background of the video? And you're like, no, surely that was added on. You know, hard to imagine how you can miss something so obvious. Yeah. So some of the principles of misdirection are very similar to the gorilla illusion, but they happen automatically. So I just guide your attention to areas that you think will be of importance, but actually are less important. And again, that will allow me to pull a rabbit for the hat or anything that a magician wants to do, really. That makes me worry about the kind of things we must miss in everyday life. If our attention can be so easily sort of taken elsewhere, what things have I actually missed outside of a magic trick? Well, most things. I mean, the Magic Lab, we have a lot of fun in the lab and we do a lot of fun experiments, but there is a really serious side to all of this. Magic works because we are unaware of these limitations. If you'd be aware of just how little you'd see, well, magic wouldn't really work because whenever the magician makes a rabbit appear from the hat, you'd go, oh, well, I wasn't going to be able to see that anyway. And so it doesn't really seem surprising. But as we've learned more about the human mind and perception, we've realized that actually you don't see most of the things that are going on around you. And so that is one of the biggest illusions that magicians exploit, is this idea that you feel that you're aware of your surroundings when in actual fact, you're only aware of a tiny fraction. And that's why you don't see the magician sneak the rabbit into the hat. Camilla, you look like you've got a question. Yeah. I mean, we don't pay attention to everything. We're not hyper focused because otherwise we would be crazy, right? I mean, yeah, it'd be impossible. I mean, as we all know, processing visual information requires lots of resources. And so there's really two strategies that evolution could have approached. Like we could have either decided that we just want to process all of the information. Now, that would mean we'd have to have a huge neural center, so huge heads that would need loads of energy to feed those heads or the neurons inside the heads. Or we could just sort of use a really efficient process. So rather than processing all of the information, you just process the stuff that's of importance. Now, that's really efficient and that helps us survive, but it can lead to errors, namely you don't see the gorilla. Is that not dangerous when it comes to something like driving, when surely sort of processing all the information is really important? Yeah. I mean, driving is a weird thing because it's super, I mean, it's really difficult. Like you have to do so many different things and the smallest mistake could lead to a fatal error. Now, one of the things that we found in our research on misdirection is that people can often look at something and then they still don't see it. So we test this with eye tracking. So we have these eye tracking glasses that we can put on our participants and then we perform different magic tricks and we see whether they notice it or not. And what we find is that often people can look at the secret and yet they still don't see it. What? Now this has got important, yeah, so you can, I can drop something and have a really bright light. I can drop it right in front of your eyes. You could look at it and you don't see it. And that's got important implications for use of phones, for example. So if you're driving and you're talking to someone on the phone, that is really dangerous. I mean, it's the studies showing that it impairs your driving performance to the same extent as if you'd be legally drunk. Do you mean holding a phone to your face or does that include like hands-free setups? That's a really important distinction. It's just as dangerous if you've got a hands-free setup. What? The phone is misdirecting your attention, but not necessarily where you are looking. So you can look at a car in front of you and yet you still don't see it. So yeah, it's one of the biggest illusions really, it's just how little of the world we're consciously aware of. Phillys, you look like you've got a question. Yes, I do. Gustav, as I'm listening to you, it seems like we are easy to trick, but have you ever met a group of people or some people that are not easy to trick? Or are we all of us universally easy to trick? Oh, good question. Small infants are quite hard to trick. Well, magic often relies on exploiting shortcuts and heuristics or sort of tricks that the brain use to facilitate their computations. Now, that means that you need to rely on these shortcuts to actually be able to be tricked. So if you don't have that knowledge, then it's a lot harder to trick you. So, I mean, I used to do these experiments with my kids when they were really small. I would try and make a ball disappear. When they were about two, they really couldn't care less. They didn't really understand what was going on. I don't have the concept of objects appearing and disappearing because things are constantly appearing and disappearing. So it was actually really difficult to fool an infant. But we are sort of looking at some of these differences, by actually understanding why people fall for some of these tricks and why other people don't. That could potentially provide us with intriguing insights about some of these individual differences. So one of the things magicians rely on is distracting our attention. So we sort of miss the thing that's happening. What other psychological things do magicians rely on in order to trick us? Yes, so magic does not just involve manipulating what you see, but also what you think and the way that you make decisions. And so one principle that we've been studying is the principle known as forcing. In a card trick, for example, I'm going to ask you to choose a card. And even though you feel that that was a free choice, I may have influenced the card that you ended up with. Now these kind of forcing principles can tell us quite a lot about how we make decisions in the real world. And so one principle that we've been studying is we call it the placement force. So if I place four cards on the table and just ask you to touch one, there's a 60% chance that you will touch the one that's immediately in front of you. Is that just because we're lazy or? That's exactly it. We're just really lazy. You don't really think about why you make these decisions. You just choose the easy option. But again, like a misdirection, people are not aware of these decision-making processes. When we then ask people how free was their choice, they think it's completely free. They also don't realize that most other people will choose the same card. There's a lot of these types of principles. Again, in the Magic Lab, we study them to learn more about how people make decisions, but also essentially to try and encourage people to make better decisions. Because advertisers, they often use these principles to get you to buy their product. So if you're in a supermarket, for example, there's lots of products in a shelf. Most supermarkets will put the high-priced items at eye level and easy reachable situations. This is really just to encourage you to buy those products without necessarily thinking. Gustav, may I ask, you talked about your research at the lab. What are you working on at the moment? One of the projects or line of projects that we're looking at is placebos. What we do is we bring our participants into the lab and we say that we've got this new neurostimulation device that can alter your cognitive functions and we place electrodes on their head. These are not electrodes, they're just sticky tapes with a bit of blu-tack and plugged into a computer. But we then use magic tricks to give the illusion that we can read their minds and that we can influence their thought processes. Once they believe this, we can then see whether that can change other functions. So we can then say, okay, we're going to switch this machine on, we're going to make you more creative, and people do genuinely feel more creative. So that's sort of like one of the things that we're looking at. So could you do that ahead of an exam and sort of say, oh, you know, you're revising for this exam, I'm going to put this machine on, and it's going to make you do incredibly well. And that extra bit of self-belief might actually be what you need to pass. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Perceivers generally in science, they're always seen as a bit of a pain, like sort of like something that we want to control for. But there's a lot of scope for actually using magic and placebo to actually enhance people's well-being. I mean, one of the coolest experiments that we've been running at the moment has been using a robot to read people's minds. So we've got a robot, really cute Pepper the robot. And so we've written some script that actually gives him the capability to read people's minds. Of course, it's not real. It's just a magic trick. Pepper's pretty stupid. Poor Pepper. I mean, he's cute, but he doesn't have the most amazing AI. But we can programme it to give the illusion that you can read your mind. And that is super freaky. I mean, I wrote the script myself. And even when he tries to read my mind, I get a little bit freaked out by it. So again, we can use this as a way of seeing how people will respond to AI in future technologies. It's like things that are not actually possible yet. Fascinating. Well, thank you so much for chatting with us, Gustav. It's been great having you on. Thank you. It's been a pleasure. And abracadabra with a wave of my wand. And by the magic of radio, I made Professor Gustav Kuhn disappear. Still to come, the 1938 alien invasion you might not have heard of and an unexpected side to the Zika virus. That's coming up after this. Hi there, I'm Will and I'm back with the all-important answer to this week's Unexpected Elements quiz. This time, I asked you to ponder three outlandish scientific claims and decide which one was not a hoax. So let's hear those options again. Was it A. A study claiming that shark fetuses cannibalise each other in the womb to eliminate offspring from other fathers? B. Researchers at CERN declaring that they discovered the Force, the supernatural power from Star Wars? Or C. A paper published in the journal Nature, stating that dragons were real and that climate change could lead to their resurgence. Well, I can reveal that the correct answer is A. Marine biologists studying sand tiger shark embryos have found that during pregnancy the biggest fetuses will spare their full siblings but devour those from other fathers. It really is a shark eat shark world. The three of us are journalists. We watch and add to the stories that reach people around the world every week. And next up is a chance for one of us to highlight a story they feel has unjustly gone under the radar of global news. Camilla, what have you got for us? The story I brought this week for the segment is the one about a nasty virus that infects and attacks brain cells, Zika virus, and is now being studied as a potential tool for treating aggressive tumors of the central nervous system. Okay, so the Zika virus, which can be a real problem, might be being used as a tool to target cancerous tumors. Yep. And the news really resonated in Brazil because a decade ago, Zika brought chaos to our country. It was right around the time Brazil hosted the Olympics, 2015, 2016. And I remember at one point people were debating if it was safe to go on with the games at all. I remember, but it didn't end up impacting the games too much in the end, did it? Or did it? Did some people still not go? No, no, no. They gave the green light after all and Rio hosted the games as predicted. Millions got infected. The disease itself usually has mild symptoms. But then at some point babies were being born with the then little known syndrome caused by the virus, whose main symptom was microcephaly. More than 2000 babies were born with the syndrome around that time. Yeah, so that was quite tragic. So I wasn't sure what microcephaly is, so I looked it up and it's a medical condition where a person's head is significantly smaller than expected for their age and sex. And it often means that the brain hasn't developed properly or has stopped growing after birth. And you know, it was the first big epidemic caused by the Zika virus in the world. Yeah, I remember the panic. At first specialists were not sure the malformations were caused by the virus. It took them a few months to actually confirm it. And they discovered that the virus infects and destroys the neural stem cells in the fetus. And that's why it causes microcephaly and why it's so damaging. It prevents new neurons from being formed. But that discovery gave them an idea. So could it also affect tumor stem cells in the central nervous system? Could we use Zika to target cancer cells in the brain? So different groups around the world, including in Brazil, started researching Zika as a potential oncolytic virus, as they call it. And oncolytic viruses are the ones that are able to infect and destroy cancer cells, right? While leaving normal cells alone. It's a new frontier in cancer immunotherapy research, actually. And I was chatting to a Brazilian scientist, Patrícia Gaseis, who's now teaching at King's College. And she mentioned they're seeing interesting progress researching Zika to treat glioblastoma, which is an aggressive type of brain cancer. It's still in preclinical phases, but they have this fascinating case study of a patient who happened to have glioblastoma back during the outbreak in 2016. So she caught the virus during her cancer treatment right after having the tumor removed. And after she recovered from Zika, the glioblastoma actually shrunk and hasn't come back in the past seven years. She's asymptomatic, has been actively working and doesn't need to use medication. Wow. It's good to hear some great news around the Zika virus. And we'll be keeping an eye on any clinical trials and keep you listeners posted. Thanks, Camilla. We've come to the part of the show where I get to dig a bit deeper into something that's caught my eye. Phillys, Camilla, did you know that in 1938, aliens invaded planet Earth? No, Caroline, I have never heard of this. Well, here's a news clip from CBS, Columbia Broadcasting Station, at the time. What's that? There's a jet of flames springing from that mirror that leads right at the advancing men. It strikes them head on. Lords, they're turning into flames. Now the whole field's caught up by the woods and barns. There's gas tanks, tanks with the automobiles Spreading everywhere, coming this way now, about 20 yards to my right. See, there you go, there's my proof. Do you believe me now? I mean, yeah, sounds real. And if I was there at that time, I would be so scared. I mean, I'm listening to it and I'm like, what? What's happening? What do you think, Camilla? If April's Fool was not our theme, I would totally buy into it. Yeah, but I think it's a hoax. Yeah, I slightly ruined it all by setting up the theme of the show as being a hoax. So yes, of course, it's a hoax. Aliens didn't invade in 1938, but that news clip was broadcast by CBS at the time. In fact, it was part of a longer hour-long show, and some people did believe it. They did believe that aliens invaded. So how did this fake broadcast happen? So radio producer and director, 23-year-old Orson Welles was behind it. He was adapting the HG. Wells, The War of the Worlds, into a radio drama. And it was so realistic that supposedly it caused mass panic. People fled their homes, phone lines jammed. One man even supposedly burst into a church shouting, it's the end of the world. Also, I think it's worth saying that this was all done live. It wasn't a pre-recorded show, which as a radio person, I'm very impressed that they managed to pull that off. Even just that clip live, it sounded so action packed. You know, after I had the clip, I was like, okay, what's happening? You know, it was very believable. And to say that it happened live, I mean, yes, I'm with you. I mean, right now, pre-recorded, you know, you have to edit and do this and try and add tricks. But that happened live. And in 1938, good job, good job. Those creamy gave me goose bumps. Yeah. Well, here's a BBC News clip of Orson Welles, the man behind it all, recounting what happened after the broadcast. I had no idea that I'd suddenly become sort of national event. It was immediately after our show went off the air that Walter Winchell, who was on a rival network and had heard about how all the telephone lines had been jammed and all the excitement going on, went on the air on his network, on his program of news commentary and said, Mr. and Mrs. America, there is no cause for alarm. America has not fallen. I repeat, America has not fallen. It's only a little while ago that I again ran into some Quakers and Red Cross people who had been up in the black hills of Dakota some five or six weeks after this broadcast, persuading the people to leave the mountains and go back home because Martians really hadn't come. Four or five years later, I was on the air doing a show. I was in the midst of some hymn of praise to the American cornfields or something of the kind when suddenly a gentleman darted into the radio studio, held up his hand and said, we interrupt this broadcast to bring you an announcement. Pearl Harbor has just been attacked. Of course, this very serious and terrible news was never believed, not for hours by anybody in America because they all said, well, there he goes again, really. Well, the bad taste was funny once, but not a second time. So the show caused a lot of hysteria or so well said. But actually, it seems the alien invasion was a bit of a double hoax. Some people did hear the broadcast and panic, yes, but Wells did say at the start of the show that it was fiction. And Wells liked to exaggerate the impact it had. Although he issued a public apology, in interviews with him, it's quite clear that he was pleased to have made such a mark. And newspapers also exaggerated the effect. Radio was still relatively new at the time and newspapers saw it as a threat. So painting radio as irresponsible and something that could fool the public helped newspapers to undermine it. Still imagine that now, a full hour of broadcasting where you pretend the world is ending. And you know, okay, for me, I'm thinking right now, people still do believe radio a lot. And I'm imagining at that time when radio was just starting and you have that announcement, that would have caused a huge, huge, huge effect. I'd be scared. But maybe people wouldn't be surprised. I don't know, we've been kind of hearing a lot that the world is ending in a way. But alien invasion would still be scary though. So having listened to the full hour myself, you know, it all goes by so quickly. So at the start, there's like, oh, there's some interesting patterns on Mars. And then sort of 10 minutes later into the show, it's like, oh, aliens have landed. And then 10 minutes later, the news reporter sort of gets cut off mid thing because he's clearly been eaten by an alien. I think the pace at which the aliens invade is quite unbelievable. I like your imagination. It's so vivid and... Arson Wells as well, right? I love him. You know that he came down here to Brazil in 1942. He was supposed to record this movie about Carnival, but then he didn't do exactly what he had agreed with the studio, wasted a lot of money, and that ended up never being released, but the images are gorgeous. Yeah, amazing. Apparently, he had a great time down here. So he never ended up finishing the project? Nope. Does that make people think, I don't know, less of him as a director and creator, or has he still got a good reputation in Brazil? Oh yeah, he does. I mean, when he came here, Citizen Kane was already out there, and he had a great time with musicians and artists here in Brazil. I think he's more seen as a rebel, because the studio wanted him to shoot Carnival one way, and he chose to portray it as it is. Brazilians are mixed race, so he put people of different colors, different types, different sizes on the screen, and apparently that didn't please the studio. The images are gorgeous. Interesting. Times have changed a lot since then. We're talking about 1938. Now, in 2025, here at the BBC, we can't play alarm sounds on air in case anyone thinks that they need to act or do anything. We need a content warning for anything as scary as aliens invading. And if we did decide to stage the end of the world, we'd have to constantly remind listeners it's fiction. Once at the beginning of the show would not be enough. Yeah, true. I mean, and I appreciate that, because you can imagine the effect that it can have, you know, to an audience. Yeah, times have changed, but maybe for the best. We have enough problems as it is. Yeah, we don't want people all puzzled about the end of the world. We have enough problems. Right, we've come to the end of our episode packed full of tricks and hoaxes here on Unexpected Elements. Camilla, where did you start us off? With smart elephants who tease each other with hoses. Then for this it was over to you. Where did you take us? Yes, so I talked about the biggest scientific hoax, Piltdown Man. And then we were joined by the master of tricks himself, Gustav Kuhn, head of the science lab dedicated to magic. And finally, the second greatest radio hoax of all time, after the start of this episode, of course, the time when Orson Welles convinced people of an alien invasion. And now, all that's left is for me to thank our panellists for this week. Thank you, Phillys Mwatee in Nairobi, Kenya. Thank you, Carolina Santessana. And thank you so much, Camilla Mota in São Paulo, Brazil. Obrigada, Caroline, thank you. I'm Caroline Steel, the producer was Harrison Lewis, with Alice Lipscombe-Southwell, William Hornbrook, Debbie Kilbride and Imaan Moin. Do join us next week for more Unexpected Elements.