Welcome to The Contrarian Investor Podcast. We give voice to those who challenge a prevailing sentiment in global financial markets. This podcast is for informational purposes only. Nothing on this podcast should be taken as investment advice. Guests were not compensated for their appearance, nor did they supply payment in order to appear. Individuals on this podcast may hold positions in the securities that are discussed. Listeners are urged to educate themselves and make their own decisions. This podcast episode may have ads and the occasional announcement. To listen with our ads or announcements and take advantage of a host of other benefits, consider becoming a premium subscriber. Visit the website contrarian.supercast.tech. That's T-E-C-H for more information. Now, here's your host, Mr. Nathaniel E. Baker. All right. Here with Dan Rasmussen of Verdad Capital. And we're going to talk about a bunch of things. But firstly, AI stocks, these have been the leaders in the US and really the world for some time. And there was a brief pullback of which was partly caused maybe entirely caused by this DeepSeek stuff, the DeepSeek Sputnik shock. We're going to talk about that later. But what we have now is that Dan here has concerns that these AI names and these tech stocks have increased capex and are spending so much and have to invest so much that they can can and no longer should be priced as growth stocks. Did I get that right, basically? Yeah. I think the challenge here, Nathaniel, is that these stocks have done something incredible. These companies have done something incredible over the last few years, which is that they've massively grown profits with very little capital spending. They're capital-light, huge growers on huge revenue and profit numbers. I mean, on a scale that's almost never before been seen, right? They realized that these Internet companies could sell fully scalable products to the entire globe, and these products were essentially monopolistic in many cases, like Google Search or Microsoft Windows. And it's just been an unbelievable run the last few years. We've never seen companies this big grow this fast, ever. And that's all because of the Internet. And so I think when we look at the last decade of market returns, we have to understand that the US experience, and the experience of these tech companies was exceptional. It was a rare historic event. It's like living through the early years of Napoleon's military triumphs. And then coming to the conclusion that the French military is the best in the world, is never going to lose. We're living through not something that's normal and typical that we should expect to recur every few years, but rather something spectacular. And that should both give us an appreciation of these companies, and also some fear about betting on the continuation of their success. And now, I think that there's been a lot of talk about the death of mean reversion, right? That, look, you know, I'm saying that the Mag-7 names, the US tech companies are expensive, and therefore that their returns won't be good has been a bad argument, right? Because they've been expensive for years, and the returns have been great. And so people have kind of given up on this sort of mean re-valuation, mean reversion argument. That value is dead, right? Those guys are idiots. I certainly have experienced some level of this because I've been an advocate of international diversification and value investing, neither of which have worked in large part because of these stocks. So the question is, you know, is there anything changing now that could make these magnificent seven stocks less magnificent? And I think the interesting thing now is that, you know, I'm a contrarian, but I think one of the things that makes me a contrarian is a skepticism about consensus. I think consensus wisdom often gets stale, it gets overbought, and gee, I just maybe there's something better naturally, something sort of born into me to want to be the outlier, want to dissent and disagree. And I think when I look at these stocks today and the consensus pricing, I also see, and uniquely in this special moment, that these companies are all making the same consensus bet, right? They are all betting on the future of AI, on these scaling laws. And so you see almost all these companies, I guess other than really Apple, which is the outlier, but all the others are betting massive amounts of their net income on capital spending related to AI. They all believe this is the future, they believe to some extent that it's winner take all, and then they believe that the winner is he who spends the most because of scaling laws. And so you're seeing them burn just huge, huge amounts of cash on this. And I think that's quite interesting for a number of reasons. I think the first is that one of the reasons everybody's liked these stocks is they've been capital light, they can grow without spending, but now they have to spend to grow. And what's also interesting is that AI is not a piece of software that you just put it on a CD, you download it and you run it. And so the company has to just produce it once, and then they sell the exact same thing for zero marginal cost. Every AI query has a marginal cost, right? I mean, it's actually expensive to run these queries, especially when you give it a hard one, but even easy ones, it's very costly. So I think we're all sort of looking at this and saying, oh, wow, think of all this stuff could automate. But they're forgetting that actually the cost automation matters. And as someone said, humans are the cheapest reprogrammable robots. But here we have these AI things, which are actually quite costly to program and quite costly to run. So what you're seeing is, in some sense, a knowledge or services that previously were the capital light and highly scalable by the nature of the cloud and software, are turning back into a sort of manufacturing problem where services and knowledge are becoming a manufacturing problem, where energy intensity matters, where CAPEX cycles are important. And what we have to therefore start thinking about is that these tech companies are actually, first of all, becoming distinctly worse businesses, right? I mean, they're going from software businesses to industrial business. And by the way, their CAPEX spend is like triple that of the S&P 500 industrial stocks as a percent of that income, right? They're investing huge, huge, huge amounts into this very energy intensive, very sort of capital intensive business. And the question is, is that spend going to pay off? Is this a good decision? And even if it is a good decision, are all of them going to be winners? There's a wonderful idea called Competition Neglect by Sam Hansen and Robin Greenwood at Harvard came up with this. And it's the idea that people in competitive industries, when they see something, a profitable opportunity, they map it out and they invest as though there was going to be no competition. And what they don't realize is that if something looks attractive to you, it probably looks attractive to five other people. They're also spending a lot of money to win. And by the time your spend gets realized, their spend is also going to be realized and it's going to drive down your revenues, your profits to pretty close to marginal cost. And that's what you see in commoditized industries like shipping, where they're big capital cycles. And if you look at the fact that all these companies are basically designing competing models, I mean, OpenAI's model competes with Geminai's model, competes with Grok at Twitter, competes with whatever Meta is building. I mean, they're all buildings, competitor products. But the likelihood that they all win, or that even if there's a sort of oligopoly, where there won't be fierce price competition, I think is crazy. So I think that that's my sort of contrarian take here in the moment, is that yes, it is true that valuation alone has not been a good argument. We need valuation and a negative catalyst. I think that the most likely negative catalyst for these magnificent seven stocks, and therefore the market, because the Mag-7 stocks are 35 percent of the S&P or whatever. The S&P is now 70 percent of global markets. So we're talking about a pretty large swing. If you're owning a globally indexed portfolio, 25 plus percent of your portfolios in these stocks. If you're owning a U.S.-centric portfolio, it's 35. This is a massive thing that matters. And if these stocks don't work, it's going to be huge. And so I think that now we have to really consider the magnitude of this AI capex and whether it's going to pay off, whether it's going to have a positive ROI. And my view is skeptical. Yeah, fair enough. And we've seen this in the earnings, the amount of capex. And Google stock last week was punished briefly on this very item. But going back to DeepSeek now, and what DeepSeek claimed was that it could reduce the cost of running AI applications. And wouldn't that speak to some kind of efficiency of scale or something where maybe this isn't all so costly, it won't be as cost-intensive out into the foreseeable future. And okay, so Google is spending however many billion next year, but the year after that, maybe they'll spend less. Or is there nothing to be said for that? Yeah, I think that's totally a possibility, right? But there are a number of other possibilities, right? One is that DeepSeek, like all other forms of Chinese menu, like US manufacturing was made unprofitable by cheap Chinese manufacturing, right? Why couldn't AI manufacturing spend be made, you know, basically stranded by cheap Chinese AI manufacturing, right? Or Kazakhstan, right? Why do the data centers need to be here in the US.? Right? Why couldn't, you know, look at where Bitcoin mining is done? Yeah, there's a decent chunk of it done in the US., but there's a lot done in places where energy is really cheap. So, I'm not convinced that the US is a natural manufacturing winner, right? Even if AI spend is going to continue forever. So, I think there's a probability or possibility that what DeepSeek means is dramatically, structurally lower margins on AI. And I think that's quite scary, right? You think of all the money that's been spent on this. The other thing to be aware of, right, is that these are very rapid tech, this is a rapid technological change, right? Three years ago, do we really know that NVIDIA chips were going to be as important as they are today? No. Right? And what's not to say that three years from now, all of a sudden Samsung or Intel or Arm has made some other killer chip that makes NVIDIA chips not valuable anymore, and all this AI capex has to be depreciated over three years or four years, right? Think about the massive hits or earnings that's going to be coming just from the depreciation of this capex spend based on new technology. And even if NVIDIA is still the winner, you're telling me that their chips three years from now are not going to be infinitely better for AI than the ones that people are spending $100 billion on this year? I think it's all very short-sighted, and it's hard once you think you get on this capex spend cycle, it's hard not to think that you're going to suddenly be able to step off it and make a highly scalable product. Again, it's not like the revenue model here, or the profit model is so clear. Yes, everybody likes playing around with Chachi BT, but are they bearing the full expense of doing so? Or are these companies effectively subsidizing, massively subsidizing the use of these AI tools? And if customers were willing to bear the full cost of it, would it be cost effective for it to be implemented in a variety of ways? I'm skeptical. Again, now, that's not to say it's not going to dramatically improve, but I don't think we're there yet. Yeah, gosh. And this does speak to the growth prospects of these companies. And it begs the question where growth is going to come from for this next stage of the investing cycle, or maybe there won't be any, and that we have to go back to value and to staple stocks and things like that. What's your view on that? Yeah, I don't know. I will say that the level of growth that these companies have experienced over the last few years is so awesome, so amazing that it's just hard to continue that into the future. At some points, you've got to pull a new rabbit out of the hat, and I think they're all trying to pull AI out of the hat, and I just don't know. I don't know if that's going to drive the growth they anticipate it driving. And so I think that people have become too confident that growth is persistent and predictable for these companies, that they're always going to grow at double-digit rates. And I think, who knows, especially with the depreciation of all this AI spend, which could flow through the income statement, mean declines in earnings. I mean, I think it's a real risk that people are not pricing in because people have gotten too confident that these companies are always going to grow. And by the way, that there's had this sort of downstream effects, right? And you say, well, gee, more and more people are getting rid of their international stock allocations, for example. And they're doing so because the US has done so much better. But the drivers of the US doing better are more than 100% two things, the dollar getting more valuable and the MAG-7 stocks. You take those two things out, internationals outperform the US. So are those two things going to continue? And if they don't continue, have people put way too many eggs in one basket implicitly? If you're moving money into the S&P 500, all these sort of decisions that have flowed down as a consequence of the MAG-7 doing so well, could be unsettled in a way that I think would be deeply surprising and unsettling for people. Yes. So where does one go then with this? Or does one just short all these? I mean, good luck with that. I mean, if that's a high-wager, risky bet. Yeah. I think I've always been in favor of my new book, The Humble Investor, makes the case for some level of humility in investing. And so I think of, let's assume we don't know what's going to happen, right? Let's assume that no one knows what's going to happen, right? So if we assume that not only do we not know what's going to happen, but no one else knows what's going to happen, what's the position that we'd start with, sort of the future nihilist position? And I think there are a few different ways to think about that. One is to say, well, at very least, we should be market cap weighting our investments. And that means we should have at least 30 percent of our money ex-US. And I ask, how many people have that already, right? Versus how many people are just loaded up in the US, and that's all they want. I showed this great graphic of what Japanese NISA account owners own. So this is a Japanese retirement account, a special new Japanese retirement account. And if you look at the top 10 holdings in Japanese NISA accounts, it's like Palantir and Avago and Broadcom. I mean, you're just sort of like, wait a second, these are global meme stocks. Sick of me yet? Become a premium subscriber and avoid all ads or interruptions. Other benefits as well. Visit contrarian.supercast.tech for more information. And so I think the first thing to think about is, are people appropriately globally diversified? Because they're actually, the minute you step out of the US, you get this huge valuation discount. Stocks are meaningfully cheaper outside of the US, even controlling for sector and quality and everything else you would want to control for, they're meaningfully cheaper. And so I think the first obvious thing to do is go international. And the humble thing first is to say, we'll go international per market cap weighting, so at least 30 percent international. But if you then say, well, gee, maybe I should go international by earnings weight, because if valuations are not providing the information about future growth, right, if they're distorted in some way, why don't I weight by earnings? And that's going to get you pretty close to a 50-50 US international split, which nobody has today. I mean, nobody's 50 percent international. So I think that that's sort of the first thing to do, because I think, if indeed this AI spent the sort of blessing and the curse of our tech growth cycle has been that it's all been in the US, there are no international tech companies of note. Maybe the one semi-conductor, the business in Europe, whose name I'm not remembering for a second. SML, I think. SML, there you go. But that's it. Then there are the Chinese Internet stocks, which are their own thing. But in developed international markets, TSMC, but it's nothing like the Mag-7. You can count them on one hand. I think that if you think about if those tech names disappoint, there's a lot of reason to think international will outperform, just like small cap or mid cap or value or anything else will outperform. And what's interesting is we have this bifurcated market where, if you look at correlations, US large cap growth has become disconnected from every other equity segment, to the point where US large value is as correlated to US large growth, as international stocks are to US large growth. It's just one trade, US large growth. And that one trade is dependent on a small set of stocks, and those small sets of stocks are now all dependent on the future of AI. And gee, we don't know yet whether AI is going to turn out to be the metaverse, where no one shows up, or whether it's going to be the next SaaS software, where even though it's costly to build, just results in some massive hyperscaling profit pool that grows to infinity. We don't know yet. Yeah. I mean, going back to the whole international argument, I mean, what do you make of the argument that these US stocks are already provide exposure to global economies? Like the old argument that if you want to buy China, just buy GM because all the cars they sell into China, right? And there's so many US companies where so much of their growth is dependent on the Chinese consumer. That's just China, but also dependent on global growth. So what do you make of that? That there is no real decoupling anyway. Yeah, that's a great point. I think so I ran a regression on valuations, and I put two things as valuation inputs. One was whether a company is listed in the US or not, and the second was what percent of the revenue came from the US. Yeah. And whether it's listed in the US is highly statistically significant. And by the way, it's hugely beneficial. So the gap between US and international valuations is about a third explained by whether a company is listed in the US or not, right? Which is a little bit crazy, right? Because why should it matter where you list? And actually, it's not only not at all explained by your percentage of revenue coming from the US., but there's actually a negative relationship, and it's weak, right? So I don't want to make much of this. But if you think about the great US tech companies, actually a very large percentage of their revenues come from abroad versus a lot of US value stocks have a lot of their revenues coming from the US. And so actually, if you look internationally, and you apply that same logic, you're saying, well, I get a valuation discount for buying international stocks. And if I buy international stocks with high revenue weight in the US., of which there are a lot, think about like Unilever or something, like what percent of their revenue comes from the US.? Probably 50 plus percent, and they're not the only ones. Think about Toyota, and probably 30% of their revenue is coming from the US. There's so many of these companies that are really selling huge amounts into the US market, and yet are not only cheaper by virtue of being ex-U.S., but actually you're getting even a discount on US revenue. You're buying US revenue at these discount evaluations. I think that's it. Okay. Yeah. I guess that's fair enough. But yeah, because I mean, is it possible to decouple? Is it possible to buy something that really isn't dependent on the US.? Because even if you do buy, emerging markets supply the US., right? Or they supply China, which supplies the US. So is it possible to get something that is geographically isolated enough where it's alpha? Yeah. Everything is correlated, right? Revenues are correlated. Everything depends on the global cycle. But the most obvious argument for decoupling is that over the last decade, what, the S&P has returned 11 percent and the Acquiax US has returned 2 percent a year, right? So what's to say that next 10 years, it couldn't be the exact reverse with the same amount of coupling or decoupling, right? The same economic forces are going to drive the next 10 years. All I'm arguing is that it's totally possible that those two things could switch. We just don't know. And I think that the humble prediction would be there's no flip. It's a coin flip, right? Because past returns don't predict future returns, right? It's not like, oh, take the last 10 years of stocks returns, and that's going to be the right answer for the next 10 years, right? We're like, well, tech has outperformed industrials for the last decade. Therefore, it's going to outperform next year, right? That's just not how markets work. You can't just extrapolate from past returns into the future, nor can you extrapolate from past growth. I have a whole chapter in my book about this, right? Past growth does not predict future growth at all. And so this is one of the classic mistakes people make, right? Is that they tend to try and extrapolate when trying to extrapolation really doesn't work. Yeah, you mentioned your book, and I want to talk about that now. It's called The Humble Investor. Isn't that a misnomer? I mean, are any investors truly humble? You know, I think the idea of humility and the sense in which I'm using it here is this epistemic humility of saying, and I talked earlier about this idea of future nihilism, right? Which is, let's assume we can't predict the future. Let's say it's impossible to predict, right? We really don't know. And I'm not fully there, by the way. So I'm not a future nihilist, but let's start from there. Let's assume that we start from the premise that we can't predict anything about the future. Then what would we do, right? What would we do if we couldn't predict the future? Well, I think you'd firstly, you'd look at equity markets, right? And you'd say, well, gee, if we can't predict the future at all, then a stock that's priced at 30 times PE, and a stock that's produced priced at five times PE, to the extent that that pricing is dependent on growth, future growth, which is unpredictable, we've consented is unpredictable, then that valuation gap should be narrower than it is, right? If it's dependent on, there are other things that drive a company's valuation, call it size or return on assets or things like that, right? So separate those things out. But the extent that it's dependent on future, the future growth, right? Those spreads should be a lot narrower than they might be, right? So that might be a result. So, and that would be a case for value investing. That we should buy cheaper things because we can't predict the future. It might also be a thing for more equal-weighted thinking as opposed to market cap weighted thinking because the same logic would flow through. It might make a case obviously for weighting international more equally to the United States because we don't know which one's going to outperform. So I think that that's sort of the starting point of humility of saying, well, let's start from the premise that we can't predict the future and then go walk us back from that point, right? What are the few things we kind of do know? But if we don't start from that perspective of future nihilism, I think we start where too many investors start, where they take sort of imperfect and in my mind, almost completely wrong financial theories like the dividend discount model. They say, well, stock is worth the future present value of its future, and that present value of its future cash flows discounted back to the future. You say, okay, well, gee, but what if we don't know what future cash flows are and we don't know what the right discount rate to use is? Because, gee, if you can fully predict cash flows decades into the future and you fully know what the future course of interest rates, why are you valuing a stock anyway, right? You should be just sort of infinitely rich. It's just not plausible to know those things. And yet, that's the starting point of most fundamental analysis, build a model, forecast future cash flows, discount them back to the future. And I think there are so many examples like that where people start with the assumption that they can predict the future, work back from there to a decision. And I'm saying, gee, that's exactly the wrong way to go about it. Start from the premise you have no clue what's going to happen, and then start to figure out where might I get some slight degree of edge or some slight degree of stacked odds. And I was just looking at a sort of a quantitative back test we're working on where we compare the results of various strategies to the mean, and we see, what's the percent of the time that we beat the mean, or what's our delta versus the mean, and all the numbers are like 2%, 3%, 4% better than the mean, or something like that, right? These are like, oh, wow, you're 53%, right? Holy smokes, right? That's a great result. And I think thinking about that, that likely the right strategy in investing or sort of a goods investing strategy is right, like 53%, 54%, 55% of the time. And that's good in investing, right? Really good, really reliable. And starting from that sort of mindset, not starting with the premise of like, oh, I can predict Coca-Cola's future cash flows, the 100% accuracy. Therefore, the number I come to, to my dividend discount model is right, so I should buy the stock, right? That's just crazy thinking. Yeah. Well, 53% sounds an awful, it sounds very close to 50%, which is flipping a coin. Exactly. So why bother? Why just buy an index and be done with it? Exactly. I think that that's a great point. And I think that this is why indexes have garnered so much popularity, right? Now, there are those of us who want an edge, who are trying to be in the active game. And I think that what you start from is you say, okay, we'll find the places where I have some edge, and then try to design a strategy that can achieve my objectives. But I think the point that I'm making is actually, if you have a 5% edge, like if you can get to 55%, 45% on some bet, that's pretty damn good. You can actually make a lot of money in markets by being right 55% of the time. That's what success looks like. But I think people just don't realize how hard it is to get from 50% to 55%. That's where all the edge is, and that's why it requires so much tolerance of volatility, tolerance of being wrong, so many humbling experiences. And I write in the book that we don't see the words mistake or forecasting error in any economics textbooks. But anyone who's ever invested money for a living knows that mistakes and forecasting errors are like everyday occurrences on the job, right? So why would we construct, why would we teach MBA students to build DCF models without first teaching them that they're going to be wrong, vast percentages of the time and what to do about that, how to think that through, how to make decisions in the face of the likelihood of constant failure, constant errors, constant mistakes. What kind of things do you think can supply edge? And we're staying here away here from the dark edge that Stevie Cohen supposedly talks about. Yeah. Right. Or what did he call it? The bribery, prostitution. No, I think the, I'm more quantitatively inclined. I think that my first bit of edge, I think there's edge in being humble. I think there's edge in realizing that other people are too confident in their forecasts. And so that collapsing of the spread of, you know, people are this optimistic to this pessimistic. Well, that spread should be narrower than it is, right? The cheap stock shouldn't be quite as cheap. The most expensive stocks shouldn't be quite as expensive. I think that's a, that insight provides some edge. I think the next thing is to say, well, what other types of things are predictable or persistent that maybe other people don't appreciate? In equity investing, I think value, obviously, and consistently betting against pessimism and against optimism and for unpredictability is a winning edge. The other one is betting for the long-term on return on assets, high return on assets businesses, high gross profit assets that is persistent, right? It's the one place I'm sympathetic to the compounder bros as they're frequently mocked on Twitter, right? But there's that, right? The high return on asset, high gross profit assets businesses do persist. They stay high gross profit assets, and betting on them consistently over time, regardless of what happens to the business cycle, or their growth rates year in, year out, that can provide some edge. There are other things outside of just stock selection. I'm a big believer in that crises are unique opportunities to make money, and I think there are ways to do that, think that through to plan for crises. It's something that we specialize in at my firm. Now, you got my attention. What do you think? When's the next crisis coming in? Where? I think we never know when the next crisis will come or what will cause it. But we do know what to do when there is a crisis. What I've done is study every one of these past historical crises, and it's a pretty clear roadmap for what you want to do. You want to go and buy the cheapest, most illiquid, most beaten up stocks that aren't going to go bankrupt. You want to buy baskets of stocks that look like that, holy smokes, your returns coming out of the crisis are spectacular. But too many people have the exact opposite reaction. They sell stocks, they go to cash, they go to fixed income. What we've been working on for the past few years is trying to encourage people to come up with a plan to say, gee, maybe right now your asset allocation is 70 percent stock, 30 percent cash and bonds. There's another crisis, you should probably go to like 90 percent stock and 10 percent cash or 100 percent stock or borrow money and go to 120 percent stock and take advantage of these special moments because they only come once every 5 to 10 years. But you can really supercharge your returns if you're willing to be a contrarian at those times. Yeah, of course, the problem then is the dry up in liquidity, right? And I mean, good luck getting somebody to lend you money to invest in stocks at the bottom. And also a lot of times people, I remember this from the first quarter of 2009. Everybody was convinced that stocks were cheap. They were cheap, but nobody had money to invest. So I guess that's the other part of this. All right, very interesting, Dan Rasmussen. I want to take a quick break and come right back and ask you some more questions about your book, about crises, about investing, and about your personal background and professional background, I guess I should say. But let's first take a quick break. If you are a premium subscriber, you will not get the break. Do not touch the dial. We'll be right back. In fact, we already are. Everybody else to become a premium subscriber, visit the website contrarianpod.substack.com and sign up. We hope you enjoy this episode of The Contrarian Investor Podcast, where we give voice to those who challenge a prevailing narrative in global financial markets. Consider becoming a premium subscriber. For $9 a month or less, premium subscribers receive a number of benefits. Podcasts are posted immediately after they are recorded. Transcripts are made available within 24 hours. Premium subscribers get direct access to the host. And of course, there are no ads or interruptions. Visit contrarian.supercast.tech for more information. By the way, you don't need the.tech suffix to get to that website. contrarianpod.substack.com will do the trick. And we also have a Substack where you can sign up for the same prices, same benefits, same details. contrarianpod.substack.com. So if you already have a Substack account and use it or have the app and use that, that's probably the best way to go. So contrarian.supercast.com or contrarianpod.substack.com, whole bunch of benefits, including of course getting this episode up to a week early without ads or annoying announcements. And you also get the daily Contrarian briefing and podcast that is released every market day morning at 7 a.m. This is a Contrarian take on the events of the day ahead and what is likely to move markets such as economic data releases, earnings and other things. It is really good and that is completely unbiased, of course. So check that out, contrarianpod.substack.com or contrarian.supercast.tech. Now on with the show. Here with Dan Rasmussen of Verdad Capital, Verdad meaning truth in Spanish, not in Latin, that's Veritas, right? Yeah. Anyway, Verite in French if you must know. But this is the segment of the show where we ask our guests to tell us a little bit more about him or herself and how he or she arrived at this stage of his or her career. So very curious to have you take us back and give us your origin story in Marvel terms about how you got into investing and then how things transpired to get you to the current position. I didn't. I'm not the person who have been trading stocks since I was 12 or something. I really wasn't particularly interested in investing or finance until late in college. I was actually very interested in history and writing. And when I was getting to the end of my college career, I figured I had to find a job that made money and they don't pay historians much. So I was trying to figure that out. And I actually, sort of the conclusion I came to, which was by chance, I got a job at Bridgewater Associates, an internship at Bridgewater. And I realized there, and their focus was very much on discerning lessons from history, or how to invest and study in the past. I thought, well, gee, this is like applied history, right? This is like ideas. It's very intellectual. I like this. And so I decided to go into investing or to try my hand at it. And I ended up getting a job after graduation at Bing Capital Private Equity, and private equity up until that point, it's been a fantastically successful asset class. And so I started studying, what were the drivers of that? How did they make it work? And then when I left Bing Capital to go to business school, I thought, well, gee, maybe I'd like to start my own firm and try to take the lessons of what had worked in private equity and what had made bank capital very successful in the 80s and 90s and apply those. And my premise was that the key lessons from private equity were that micro caps, especially deep value micro caps with leverage, which is how I describe most of the most successful PE deals in the 80s, 90s and early 1000s, micro cap deep value with leverage, that I could replicate that in the public markets, especially internationally, that there were a huge number of these types of companies in Japan and Europe and a smaller number in the US, but still a decent chunk. And I could build a business that built on that idea. So I started out with that. That was my initial idea. And then over time, branched out into a number of different ideas, one of which is crisis investing and learning how to apply the lessons of that into crises, high yield fixed income, and then market neutral, global macro, which is another sort of newer strategy for us. Cool. Really interesting. Yeah. The book here, it says, I believe that humility about our ability to predict the future, which is flawed, paired with deep study of history can offer a path to outperformance. And you mentioned your study of history, and what is, in your view, what historical period is perhaps most comparable to the present day? Yeah. You know, it's fun. We built one of our little quant models that we've built is, I can't pronounce the guy's name, but it's the distance, the macroeconomic distance between any two given points, assuming you take a look at a certain number of variables, inflation and interest rates, the credit spreads, term spread, et cetera. What period of time does this most look like? And I'd say, unfortunately, right now looks a lot like sort of peak bubble phases, 2007, 2000, some periods in the 60s and 70s. Now, there are also some good analogs, right? So I don't want to say it's all that, but right now, the sort of analogous moments are flashing a relative warning sign, right? Credit spreads are really tight. That's usually a dangerous sign. You know, vol is very low. Interest rates are sort of normal, but inflation is relatively high. These are not necessarily good indicators. Yeah. Yeah. No, they certainly aren't. You mentioned international stocks. How important is it to buy stocks in the local exchange versus the ADRs? Well, ADRs give you access to a few of the biggest names internationally, but there's so much more depth than when you go to the local markets. Now, you want to be careful. I think obviously there's developed markets, Japan or UK or whatever, where there's total rule of law, etc. And so I feel very comfortable buying stocks in the Tokyo Stock Exchange, London Stock Exchange. Do you want to venture into the Indian Stock Exchange or the South Korea Exchange? No, that is probably pretty difficult to do so. So I think there's a spectrum, but I think my joke is if there's a US military base in the country, you're probably fine investing in the country's stock market. That's interesting. Okay. All right. Well, that's probably most countries on earth, but it's not all. Yeah. That's really interesting. So yeah, I think going back more to history. So like what kind of factors do you look at? You mentioned macro factors, credit spreads. What about the whole international order of things and presidents and such? We haven't actually talked about the current president yet, which is unusual in this day and age. It seems that most conversations in the investing world start and end with him, weirdly. So what do you make of all that? Yeah. Usually, who is president and politics don't really matter in equity return, so I don't spend a ton of time thinking about it. I'd say the one interesting thing about this particular president is the return in interest in foreign exchange rates. We've had a lot of low volatility periods in international and foreign exchange markets. A lot of the old FX hedge funds that used to exist have gone bankrupt, for lack of all. And so it's interesting to see that type of trading come back, and it's something we do here. We do some FX trading, and it's been very interesting to watch its impact on making some of those trades actually a lot more profitable than they used to be. Interesting. It's all been the US dollar, long US dollar, hasn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. So just versus any of these currencies, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that even if you have no return forecast on other than carry on foreign currencies, a lot of these currencies are actually very correlated to the US equity market. And some of them are cheap to borrow in. So it looks like the Canadian dollar, which is very highly correlated with US equity markets. So when US equity markets go up, the Canadian dollar goes up and vice versa. But you can essentially borrow money pretty cheaply in Canadian dollars. So if you short the Canadian dollar, you'll dampen your equity volatility and free up money to invest in US equity. It's right. So there's all sorts of little tricks like that, that you can do in the FX market, but something that we've been quite interested in exploring. Very interesting. All right, cool. Maybe in closing, if you could just tell our listeners how they can find out more about you, or the book is available at any bookstore, including amazon.com, The Humble Investor. Is this your first book? Second book, actually. Okay. What was the first? It's a book called American Uprising, which is about a slave revolt in New Orleans in 1811. Oh, wow. So pure history. It's like nothing to do with markets. Exactly. Oh, wow. One day I may want to ask you about that, because I've read a little bit about that. But let's leave that alone for now. How would people, is that where your specialty is historically? Is it Antebellum South? Yes, exactly. Yeah. So if you're interested in that, buy my American Uprising book. But if you're interested in markets, The Humble Investor, which you can buy on Amazon or anywhere else, the books are sold. And my Twitter, our X feed is at Verdadcap. We have a mailing list you can sign up with through my link there. And then my website is verdadcap.com. Very cool. verdadcap.com. Verdadcap on Twitter slash X. Make sure you get all that. I will put all that information in the show notes. And with that, I thank you all for listening. Thank you to Dan for coming on. And we will speak to you again next time. See you then. Thank you so much. Thank you. Bye. Thank you for listening to The Contrarian Investor Podcast. We hope you enjoyed this episode. To subscribe to this podcast, simply open your favorite podcast software and search for Contrarian Investor. Follow us on social media by searching for Contrarian Investor on Twitter and Instagram. Send us your thoughts on feedback at contrarianpod.com. We look forward to speaking to you again next time.