Hey, what's up, it's Joe. Welcome to Freestyle Friday 4, April 11th. So I just got back from kind of a whirlwind week. Started the weekend off, last weekend, off in Atlanta, where I gave a eight hour plus workshop on the fundamentals of data engineering. So usually don't do too many workshops. When I do, I, you know, put a lot of effort into them. I definitely feel it's on brand for me to do a great job. And this is a good example of it, right? So a full day workshop, you're going to be learning about the fundamentals of data engineering from first principles. You're going to be diving into a lab and going through a lot of scenarios involving people in process, right? Not just technology. I think that all too often workshops overlook the most important parts, which is the organizational issues and how to deal with them. So this is a lot of fun. I gave the workshop to the Higher Education Data World Conference, and we'll get more into the coding part of it in a bit. But it was a lot of fun to put together. I had a lot of fun using a lot of the new AI tools to just speed up my process and revamp a lot of the materials. So yeah, I think that that was a really successful workshop. I'll be rolling out more workshops very soon. More on that in a bit. And then I got back home for a bit, like not even 24 hours, and I was off to Las Vegas for Google Next. So I had not been to Google Next since 2019. And when it was last time I was there, I was at the Moscone Center in San Francisco. This time it's in Las Vegas. So that's always a trip. It's a pretty short flight for me, right? Like pretty much an hour. But Vegas for conferences is definitely sensory overload. As you can tell by my voice right now, like my voice is completely thrashed. Just talking to a lot of people, shouting because it's super loud. And it's pretty much just non-stop, right? Like if I go to a conference and they're just talking to practically everybody because just a lot of people. And that's kind of how it is. So shout out to Monte Carlo and Stream and Daxter and other partners for helping organize the serving data, dinner and drinks. It hosted a little fireside discussion there. And then we had a fun happy hour, right? So it was good to catch up with even more friends there. So if you know who you are, shout out to you. And it was funny, you know, walking around the kind of the conference halls, right? You hear things all the time, right? And it's usually buzzwords. I remember if you kind of rewind, maybe five years ago or so, it was all about the modern data stack, right? So if you're at a data specific type of conference, right? It's always about what's hot. So modern data stack was hot. Even Web3 was hot for a small second. And ChatGPT comes on, and then everyone's into chatbots and generative AI. And this is the year of agents, right? So it's how can you leverage agents in your workflows, in your workplace? So it seemed like every vendor had some sort of agentic AI solution. And I, you know, couldn't quipped on LinkedIn that, you know, you couldn't walk more than about five to ten seconds without hearing the word agent, you know, being thrown around by someone, right? So just this is the hotness. As a side note, it always cracks me up, right? Because it's like, you know, you kind of look around, it's like, is everybody, is everybody an expert on agents all of a sudden? Just like when ChatGPT came out, all of a sudden everybody seemed to be an expert on AI, even in the prior years. It's like nobody could barely spell it. So I just, I always find the, the conversations are a bit hilarious because you just, it's, I've been around the block a bit. It's, everyone tries to pick up on the latest thing and, you know, and, but you know, it is what it is, right? You got to, you know, you're not going to sound like you don't know what you're talking about even if you don't. So, but anyway, but you know, the cool thing is, is that I think with all the AI tools, it's making code and building with code fun again, right? So, I was talking to my good friend Patrick McFadden, who's an OG in the data space and a legend in his own right, and we were talking about just how AI is, is making coding fun again. It's making building things fun again. You know, until recently, I just didn't want to build anything, because it was just the getting ramped up on new frameworks, new languages, new technologies. It just takes time, right, to build stuff. And, you know, but you run this at the detriment of, or you do this at the detriment of staying current, right? So you kind of have to, but it's just the ramp up time. I've learned so many things I've ramped up on, but it just takes work. You got to go through documentation, which you still got to do, all this fun stuff. But AI definitely short circuits a lot of the stuff, right? It makes coding a lot of fun and enjoyable. So we'll get back to that in a second, but I'm going to do a quick ad read here. This will be the first sponsored podcast, by the way. So this episode is brought to you by GoodData. So this is actually on the notion of coding, so this will be kind of fun. But let's talk about something that's changing the game of analytics, and that'd be analytics as code. So here's the problem, right? Analytics today is still too fragmented and fragile, right? So dashboards break, pipelines get tangled, and changes in one part of your analytics stack. Maybe it ripples unpredictably through the rest, right? So I'm sure you've seen this with Spaghetti Sequel and just tools that are a bit more rigid than they should be, but this means that collaboration is messy, governance is an afterthought, and scaling, well, that's a whole other headache, right? So this is where analytics as code comes in. Analytics as code applies software development principles to data processes, and GoodData is leading the way here. So you can treat your data pipelines, transformations, and visualizations as code, and you get something powerful. You get control, right? So you can version control your code, test it, deploy it, and actually trust it. It's faster, it's more accurate, and it's traceable by design. And you get the collaboration, governance, and scalability that you deserve. The GoodData BI and analytics platform is at the forefront of analytics as code implementation. So you get a comprehensive and automated tool set offering API-first design, seamless integration, and an intuitive workflow for all types of users. For more information about GoodData, visit gooddata.com. That's gooddata.com, or GoodData, that's two words ,.com. Back to the show. So yeah, I mean, what Patrick and I were talking about with coding is just there's so much happening right now, and it's, you know, and again, in the past, if you want to spin up a demo, you want to spin up a workshop like I just did, right? That just takes a lot of time. Now you can just imagine some of the craziest stuff, and you can just get building. I think that's awesome. That's what I did for my workshop. I had some old examples. I wouldn't say old, maybe as of last year, but you know, the great things are going. You want to make sure that the participants in your workshop are getting, you know, current examples, current information, and so forth, right? So in this case, I spun up... One thing I actually used LLM for is setting up Docker, which, you know, if you've done that, it's fun, but it's also a lot of hedium and something that you don't, you know... I mean, I don't do it that often, right? So I'd rather have an LLM, at least, or a copilot help write the code. I do know what I'm doing when it comes to containerization, so I definitely know what to look for, and it definitely spit out some things that I was questioning for sure and had to fix. But, you know, it definitely walked me through an example where I was like, let's hook up a large language model, you know, that we download, in this case, Llama 3.2. Let's hook that up to Streamlit, and let's do text to SQL, right? So in this case, using LangChang. And, you know, it got me probably 70% of the way there. I had to code quite a bit of it, and there were a lot of fits and starts, but, you know, it was fun. It was fun just to move fast. I think that when you're building stuff, moving fast is fun. And when you're moving slow because you're hung up looking at, say, back in the day Stack Overflow or documentation, which you still should look at, still read the docs, you understand how things work. If you're going to settle on a tool, please do not ignore this part. But, you know, when you're just building something for a workshop, right? It's not meant to be production-grade code, you know, if you're spinning up a demo for, say, you know, just something you're going to have at your booth at Google Next, right? Like that's something where you can, you know, use an LLM, and it will spin up something that's pretty cool. Obviously, you do need to know what you're doing if you're going to help debug. I remember the LLM would just give me some pretty crazy stuff, you know, just in terms of workarounds. And I think, you know, for me, I'm pretty good at smelling bad code, and I would say probably 30% of what it would spit back at me was just bad code. So, and this is where I kind of take issue with the idea of vibe coding, right? Where I think it's cool. You can definitely vibe code demos and prototypes, but the thing is, there's an old saying in software where, you know, there's no such thing as a prototype. It's just what ends up making it to production, which a lot of prototypes do, right? So you just got to consider, like, you know, as you start pumping out more code, if this gets into production, do you actually understand what it does, right? But if you're doing something for a workshop, again, you should understand what it does because you're going to have to explain what happens. And the thing with that or coding demos is things break. So I think it is still incumbent upon you to understand what you've built. In my case, I had to, you know, there was one thing where I was trying to spin something up and it didn't work, and it ended up being a port issue. I was trying to get the Wi-Fi on the plane. But I knew my demo, the workshop demo back and forth, right, code-wise. So I knew every line in it, I knew what it did. Even I've had the LLM and copilot's help with it, right? So I think that's the difference is if something breaks, I know what to look for. If something breaks, that you've been vibe coding, how would you know if you don't know what to look for, right? So I'll be talking more about this in an upcoming podcast and stuff, but articles about kind of the effects of vibe coding, as well as my advice for junior engineers getting started, I think now's the time to be diving head first into AI. It's awesome, but just understand what you're getting yourself into, right? So but at the same time, what else? There's back to the fun aspect, right? I was talking about with Patrick, I just think that writing code is, it's fun again, right? I mean, I just got so burned out, you know, dealing with the same tools, I mean, writing Python forever, and it's like, okay, great. But like, you know, what, again, I'm just having, I'm having so much fun. I think Patrick was having a lot of fun, too. He just told me about some crazy stuff he had imagined, and he would just go build it. And, you know, it'd be most of the way there. That feels magical, right? So now, again, speed of iteration, that brings the fun back to building stuff. So anyway, I'm going to be, just heads down, you know, building cool stuff. I love it. You know, it just, the joy and the spark of being an engineer is back, right? And I just, you know, if this is what it took, this is what it takes, right? But I'm also building a new company right now. So there's, you know, you gotta be building out a lot of the infrastructure. And like I said, it's just, it's awesome just having a team of, so I subscribe to all three of the AIs like Gemini and ChatGBT and Clawed and, you know, use the APIs as well. And it's just, I have a GitHub copilot. I also, you know, was cursor and windsurf once in a while, but for some reason, kind of a bummer. I just like VS Code and copilot for whatever reason. But the whole point is like, there's just, there's so many good tools out there. Just find what works and just have fun with it. It's an exciting time, right? So I think there's no shortage of software to be built, and no shortage of issues to be fixed. So adopt these tools. Bring the spark of coding back into your life too. Anyway, yeah, back on the workshop thing real quick. Yeah, if your company is interested in having me teach a workshop, I'm available. Just message me. We can schedule something out. I'll be doing those. I'm probably starting around summer through fall. I'm going to get this book done, which I always say on every podcast. But it's a window of opportunity to get this thing done. I hope to get the manuscript done by end of May. So but I've been saying that for the last year or two, so who knows? But yeah, other things. Yes, back home for a bit. I'm going to be doing an event with Data Galaxy next week on the 16th. So check that out. That's going to be a virtual event. Then got another event with Matillion on the 29th of April. So that's going to be dope. Not too much in between that. It's going to be kind of holed up in my house. That's working on the book. And yeah, just actually writing code too with AI. Like I said, I'm just having so much fun with this stuff lately. It's great. Anyway, hope you have a great weekend. And stay tuned for the newsletter. And stay tuned for a lot of stuff dropping on practical data modeling starting next week and following. Anyway, take care. Bye-bye.