Hello, and welcome to the Real Money Stories Podcast. I'm Jason Butler, and I invite you to join me as I have intimate money conversations with people from all walks of life. Whether you're just starting out on your money journey or well down the track, there's bound to be something you can learn from these stories about taking more control of your money so you worry less and enjoy life more. Real Money Stories is sponsored by Vanguard, bringing value to 30 million investors worldwide. Visit vanguardinvestor.co.uk for more details. And remember, the value of the investments can go down as well as up, and you may get back less than you invested. Hello, welcome to this week's podcast. Now, before we get into this week's interview, we should use a couple of great guys who have got a real estate background in the United States, and they've got some great insights and some stories to share. I just wanted to talk to you about a new report that's out from an organization called Nudge, and it's called Disrupting Money Habits. And it's really interesting because they've done quite extensive research all around the world about what really drives people's financial well-being. Now, financial well-being obviously is this state when you can cope with financial shocks, you've got choices, you're on track to meet your future goals, and also that you are enjoying life now as well. So it's making sure that you're using money in a way which is helping you thrive, not just survive. Now, Nudge did an analysis on how people feel about their financial well-being. They did loads and loads of analysis, but this was the main one that I want to focus on today. And they looked at several areas. One was being proud, one was being hopeful, one was being content, one was being positive, and one was being confident. And the four key areas of the world were Europe, North America, Latin America, and the Africa and Pacific Asia region. And there are some quite interesting differences. So let's just look at proud for a minute. Now, 36% of people in Europe, which was the lowest, felt proud about their financial situation, whereas the highest was those people in Latin America, then followed by North America on 42% and then Africa and Pacific area 40%, which is interesting. So Europeans have got the lowest level of feeling proud. Hopeful about their financial position, the market leader there was Latin America. 73% of people felt hopeful for their future. So that probably makes sense because if you're coming from a lower base, perhaps you are going to be more optimistic, whereas the lowest was people in Africa and Pacific at 56%, followed by Europeans in between at 58%. So that's interesting. Now feeling content, the market leader there were 46% of people in Africa and Pacific area felt content about the situation. And the lowest was those in North and Latin America, 43 and 42%. Then when it comes to feeling positive, the market leader was the 72% of people feel positive in Latin America, whereas the lowest was people in North America, 60%. So, nevertheless, the majority of people felt positive about their financial situation. Now, the final one was feeling confident, and this is a really surprising one because 88% of people in Latin America felt confident about their financial future. The lowest were people in Africa and the Pacific region, 62%. And North America, 75% and the European area, 78%. So the vast majority of people feel quite confident. So, that's interesting. And there's loads and loads of other stats there. So I would recommend that you have a look at this report if you're interested about the drivers of financial well-being. And one of the things that's really interesting is the report focuses on the habits and behaviours that are conducive to financial well-being. So it's well worth looking at. There's a lot of stats in there. You know, it's not as easy to sort of read as perhaps a short infographic, but there's lots of stuff in there. And if you are someone who is writing, researching and leading in this area, or you're in a workplace and you're in the HR department, something you should definitely be reading, because it's a good treasure trove of information. So have a look at that. I'll put a link in the podcast show notes. It's called Disrupting Money Habits by Nudge Global. Very, very good. OK, let's get on to this week's interview. A couple of cracking guys, really interesting couple of guys who basically met each other at college or school, and they decided to get into business together, focusing mainly on real estate. And in fact, they've known each other and been in a partnership together longer than they've both been married and with their partners that they have, you know, that they're married to. So interesting couple of guys. Let's get over to this week's interview. All right, well, thanks for joining me on another edition of Real Money Stories. Can you believe we are approaching 100 episodes, 100 episodes of stories? And today I'm joined by two interesting characters from North America. That's right, isn't it, guys? Nick Earls and Eric DiNicola. Hi, guys. How's it going? How you doing? Yeah, rocking. Look, thanks for joining us. And I know you guys are busy doing all sorts of things. You seem to have your fingers in lots of pies. So before we crack on and hear about how you got to where you are, where are you and what you're doing? Well, we're real estate developers and investors. We're based out of Boston. We do new construction, condominium projects in Boston. We'll buy an old piece of land or an old house on a piece of land or just piece of land and put up small to medium sized multifamily buildings, sell each unit as condos. That's a pretty hot thing in Boston. And then we also invest in the southeast of the United States, states like Florida, Georgia, the Carolinas, Kentucky, Tennessee. There we buy multifamily properties that already exist, maybe built somewhere in the last 40 years. We improve them, add managerial efficiencies, perform renovations up the rent. And that's kind of how we model our business. We have the two sides in our backyard, the new construction development, and then another part of the country, the investing in pre-existing multifamily. And are you guys looking, are you building for flips or sell ons? Are you are you are you retaining for rental portfolios or is it a mixture of the two? Well, up here in Boston, the building, we don't hold on to it. It's tough. The economics are kind of tough. The prices are very high for land. So really, the way to make it work and to grow our business and to be profitable is to sell the individual units to homeowners. Or maybe sometimes you find an investor who wants to buy the whole building, but it's more typical that. And then down in the southeast with our rental side of things, those we buy hold on to for five, ten years, some indefinitely, and we refinance and we have investors who invest and they get quarterly distributions as a way to diversify instead of just investing in the stock market. And your firm's called Winterspring Capital. So that's the two primary activities. Is there anything else you guys are involved in or deliver or do? Yeah, so we, well, stick to real estate first. We're also getting involved in affordable housing development, which will have a component of government subsidy, either direct subsidy or through tax credits. And it basically just will, you'll be able to either rent or sell the building, depending on the nature of the project, at a much more affordable rate than the market, which we know worldwide that's becoming an issue, especially an issue here in the Northeast of the United States. So that's becoming more and more prominent, and we're trying to lean into it as a business angle. So we're doing a project here in Boston in a neighborhood called Roxbury, and we're going to be doing some affordable housing as well. And then I should also mention, we just started a non-profit organization called the Lucky Puppy Society. And basically what it does is that if a family or even a shelter has a dog that needs kind of a life-saving surgery, but they don't have the funds, we'll donate the funds for that. And we support that through the profits we make from our real estate businesses. And we also sell dog toys and dog apparel, shirts. We've actually been selling, we've been having a lot of sales worldwide. So it's been a pretty popular brand. We just launched it, doing pretty well so far. Well, my wife is going to love this episode. My wife is a dog, not a lover. She's a fanatic. She is a dog fanatic. She said, don't, whatever you do, never take away from me anything, anything, anything, possession money, the whole lot, but never take my dog. So she's with you on that one. So Jane will be very pleased. Look, guys. Yeah, great. It sounds like the real estate thing will come back to real estate in a minute and the whole phenomenon. We know things are there's lots of moving parts and there's lots of challenges all around the world that are very similar. But look, how did you get to where you are now? I mean, how did you two guys meet? Yes, we've actually known each other for over 20 years. We've met each other and we were kids in high school, almost 20 years rather, not over 20 years. We always thought that we'd start a business or something together and we were kids. We did a lot of team-oriented activities. We played football together. We did powerlifting. We're on a powerlifting team. Most of all, we're big video game nerds. We played World of Warcraft, ran a competitive guild, which is people who have never played the game might think it's a joke, but this stuff is complex. Let's get serious in gaming world. It was the start of the whole competitive era. Yeah. 15-20 years ago. Yeah. Yeah. It's a good introductory to running an organization, like running a guild in one of those games. And we were doing that when we were 15-16 years old. Some of the people in our guild were 30, 40 years old. So we had a lot of training of being able to work together and run teams. And eventually, I have a background in real estate. My parents in the construction industry, they were general contractors. My grandfather was actually a developer in Ireland. And so I just came from that construction background and I started selling real estate as an agent out of college. And we were saving money for a couple of years. We had this plan. All right, let's get into real estate. Let's let's start our own company. But, you know, as everyone knows, we were in our early 20s. We didn't have any money. Real estate is really expensive. So we just had this plan to save up a hundred grand between the two of us. And it took us like four or five years. But eventually we we had saved up quite a bit of money, even over a hundred thousand at that point. And we found a good project in 2015 and pulled the trigger. So let me just be clear, Eric, you had this idea that you you'd found each other and thought, look, we can work together because of the other experiences, the gaming federation and league and powerlifting and stuff in football. You had a background in construction. Nick, did you have a background in construction or was your family from a different kind of, was they out of a different mold? Different mold. My grandfather was a carpenter. So it was something and, you know, my my uncle was an electrician. And so in my family, there was a lot of the trades. I was more exactly. I was more into finance and that was kind of, you know, a different route. Definitely the first one of my family was interested in that. And I went to school in New Jersey and then worked in New York City for a while. You know, stock trading and public equity. And then I worked at a startup firm and learned a lot about private equity. And so I kind of had a good background in both for, you know, four or five years coming out of college. But Nick and I, like he said, we had been friends for so long that we knew something, we wanted to do something. And so I just remember thinking something we always joke about is the first hour I sat down right out of college for the first job. I said, I don't think I can do this till I'm 65, the first hour. So that was not a great start, but it just fueled the idea that, okay, you know, we both have talked about being entrepreneurs for a while, Nick has a background, he's seen it, he understands what it takes. And so when the time came to team up and actually pull the trigger on a deal, it made it that much easier. So you had complementary skills. There was a high element of trust and empathy. There was the shared common vision. This is just the components I'm seeing, right? But tell us more about that 100,000, because a number of people will be listening to this pod, and I've got a lot of people on social media who follow me, who say it's getting the first, getting over the hump of the first, getting out of mediocre to anything more, you know, the first lump of capital, or getting going, so just tell us about that. Yeah, it was tough. I won't say it's the hardest part. You know, scale on the business, I think, is harder, but that's one of the hardest parts, is getting that initial funding. For us, for me, most of that came from commissions of sales of real estate buildings I was selling, but part of that was I lived with my parents until I was 24, which I didn't do like on purpose, I didn't want to do that, but I knew housing costs in this area are crazy high, and I just figured, all right, I'll just live with them as long as I'll, until they kick me out basically, which is what I did, and that helped. I don't know, I was very, very stingy. I wore like the same pair of clothes for years, I probably still have some of those. My wife probably not that happy about that. Yeah, keep them long enough. She slowly throws them out. Yeah, no, she does. She goes through, she does the rounds and throws the ones with holes out. But yeah, I was stingy about everything, except food, you know, I'm bad with food, but that's pretty much my only weakness when it comes to budgeting. So with 100,000, let's just be clear. So you obviously was easier when there was two of you to sort of keep each other going and accountability. How important was it that you had a buddy, that there were two of you to get that first 100,000 together? I think Eric and I, and he probably agrees with this. We see guys out there who, like, if you're going to own a successful business, you're going to have to build a team around you, right? But there are certain guys who are kind of a lone wolf type. They have a vision. They think of it all themselves and then they build people underneath them. I don't think Eric and I are capable of that or just not those type of people. We had to like have people to lean on to begin with. And that was huge. And we come from like that weightlifting background, like power lifting. That's a huge thing of like kind of mutually supporting each other. So it's kind of again, it was like we are in our adolescence, kind of trained for this in a certain sense. So that was a huge component. And I viewed as a strength because from the beginning, we weren't thinking like, all right, I'm going to slap my face on this. It's always kind of a team effort. And we've just kind of built that out horizontally since where everyone kind of has ownership stake in the company to some extent or another, or everyone's kind of, you know, Eric and I are running the show, but there's no like domineering managerial styles. It's very team based. So interesting. So it sounds to me like you both came from quite industrious families where, you know, there was a work ethic. But what was the role or what messages did you guys pick up? What were your values, if you can remember in your late teens, early twenties about the whole idea of money, the role of money, the role of work, business, or in other words, what was it about becoming entrepreneurial and building a business together? What was it that called you to that? I think, and Nick can obviously speak to this as well, but one thing we both shared is just the, the idea of money bringing security and the importance of it. Because, you know, I remember, you know, growing up, say, you know, wanting to play hockey or something, and always hearing about how expensive hockey was and how expensive the equipment was and going to the used sporting goods store. And I just thought someday this is not going to be my kids. I'm going to make sure I have enough money that what they want to do, they're not going to be spoiled. They're going to have a work ethic, but they're going to understand they're going to not really want for anything. That was my goal since I was little. I remember this and just the idea of showing up to answer your question, showing up, being reliable, putting in work to make something happen, no one's going to really do it for you. And if you do that right and you're honest about it and you have compassion for people you're working with, just values like that taught me that good things will come. I mean, yeah, there'll be a lot of bad luck and both of us have faced it a lot in business now. But you can't get down, you just have to keep moving forward. No matter what, time's not going to stop. So you have to just do what you can with the time you have to put your family in the best position to have a comfortable, secure life. Nick, any thoughts on that? Yeah, I mean, for me, I kind of drank the kool-aid of society's nonsense about money doesn't matter, which I think is a combination of good intention, like, hey, we shouldn't all be like robber barons, like lording over the world. Like that's part of the reason why society tells you that there's some good intention, but there's also some bitterness involved with that message, I believe. So I kind of believe that growing up, I never really cared about money, even though my parents were entrepreneurs, small business owners themselves, I bought that stupid message. And it wasn't until I was older and just a little bit more logical that I realized, well, wait a second, money is just an instrument of A, freedom and B, security, which are two things I like quite a bit. So I don't want to be slaving away under someone else's vision, you know? And another thing for me is I'm just kind of competitive. I like to compete when I was younger. I like to compete against other people and like those sports and stuff and the games. Now I like to compete against myself. I like to always every year, every month. I like, you know, it doesn't always happen, but you want to always be on an upward trajectory in life. And I just view this this current modern age. This is the instrument of doing it. It is starting a business, making a lot of money. That's how you can influence the society and, you know, whatever small way you can, which are all things I just want to do with my life. But don't you, I'm just interested in what you guys, you know, you've been together a long time, you've seen a bit of life, and I'm sure it hasn't all gone in a straight line up. You know, there's been some bad times, which we'll touch on in a minute, because I love to share the difficult times, because people who see successful, people don't realize that it wasn't a straight line. I'm just interested to know how you, how you unpick a story or a value or a message or a concept when you're a young person starting out, when you've got, you've picked this up, you know, like you say, the money doesn't matter, but you had to have an epiphany. What, how do people unpick that? How do people get on the right, you know, get a healthy relationship with money, as opposed to a recession or a diffident relationship? I think you just got to strip away all the baggage, you know, you got to just forget about what everyone else says, just do your own cost-benefit analysis of what the pursuit of money gets you, you know? And anyone who's lived an adult life will quickly realize, you know, what it does. And some people will live an adult life and still just reject, you know, the utility of money for whatever values are, again, they picked up a message on their child and they're just kind of holding it close to their heart, even if the evidence in front of them kind of contradicting that. I don't know, there's just a lot of, just wipe away the nonsense. Don't worry about what other people think. Worry about what's best for you and your family and your future. And what do you want to do in the world? Because I watch a video. I don't know who the guy was speaking. I watched a video a while ago. And the guy was basically saying, if you don't have money, you can't do anything. And I don't necessarily fully agree with that. Like clearly there's, you know, been like rebel leaders in history who like had mass uprisings with no money. But like it's pretty much if you have no money, there's usually your path to influence is violence. Like money is the only alternative, in my opinion. So I just I kind of think money is really the only way if you want to have a positive impact in society. You have to acquire some money and then give it back in logical ways, which is, you know, one of our goals. That's why we started the nonprofit organization. So tell me, guys, you've got the first 100,000 together, right? OK, you knew that you were the ones for each other in business. What happened then? How did you get the ball rolling? So I've been looking for we were looking for a rental property to own, just kind of own it and rent it out. And I noticed that the the condominium market where you'll build, you know, an apartment building, but you're selling each unit to a homeowner was doing really well in Boston. Boston has a has a really strong university system. You got Harvard and MIT and, you know, the very long list of colleges and universities. And on top of that backbone in the past 20 years, and especially in the past 10 years, the life sciences industry has really kind of exploded. And that has given a lot of strength to this, this model of selling to homeowners is basically it's a luxury, a real estate, because these are kind of wealthy people who are coming in here. And the prices have reflected that. So anyways, we were tracking a couple different neighborhoods and a neighborhood of Boston called East Boston seemed to be on the upward trajectory. And a good deal came on where I saw how we could leverage a little bit of extra value. It was a two family house. So two units in it, but the zoning code that regulates, you know, what you're allowed to build, said you could do an extra unit. So that, and you know, all when you're doing development, you're doing real estate, you want to look for like little hidden things like that, that where you can add additional value rather than just buying a building and then just sitting on it. You want to kind of improve it. That's how you make the most money in real estate, whether it's development or just holding on to a property. So that project has kind of got us started. And we kept rolling in the profits we made from that into our next projects. And then a couple of years ago, we started working with investors. And that has kind of really helped us scale up faster. We've got a lot of projects going on right now. Our biggest one's a 32 unit right near Harvard and MIT. So we're excited about that. But yeah, we've got investor involved around 2018. But prior to that, it was all just rolling in our own money over and over again. So tell me, how did you guys... Cause that idea of scaling up any operation, whether it's real estate or whatever, the idea of scaling up and using, as Danny DeVito says, other people's money. Tell me about that, how you navigated that. Cause people sometimes are frightened, aren't they, to do both those scale up and get other people's money to help them. It's a little frightening in the sense, cause now you have a lot of other people you're beholding to or one, just however many people you of course bring in. We have a good amount now of people we work with. And we knew right away, okay, we had our eyes on the bigger prize. We didn't want to just do two and three families only. We knew we have to get in, we have to start. This is a great thing. Nick's found where we can add value as he just went over. Okay, so the next one then has to be a five and then a 10. And that was kind of our approach in the beginning. We had some good foresight there. What we didn't really realize though, until Nick just mentioned 2018, is this other people's money component. So as he said, we're rolling our money in project to project, but we started to see sort of some peers of ours doing very similar stuff. And we said, wait a second. So they have like four projects at once that they're doing all in the area. We're focusing on one and it's taking up all our time. But if we could figure out how to do this and have two or three at once, we can manage that. We just have different crews on each one and it's no big deal. There's plenty of people out there who work construction. How do we do that? And the answer was more money. We said, okay, so do we need to wait till our 10th project and before we can do two at once. And we realized quickly that, all right, we need to bring other people's money in. And so yeah, it definitely makes you a little, not that we weren't focused, but almost like more focused because now you have other people that are relying on you to perform. And that was sort of the start of that for us, doing multiple projects and bringing in other people. When you've got to raise other people's money, and I'm interested to explore this and get your perspectives. When you are bringing in other people's money, it does two things, doesn't it? One, you've got to have a proper compelling story, but you can kid yourself, there's a great deal, but convincing other people is a bit more of a thing, right? Because you kid yourself, it's going to be a bit cheaper to refurb. You kid yourself, you're going to do it quicker, all that stuff. But with other people, you've got to be a proper appraiser, proper analysis. And secondly, you've got to do what you say you're going to do, right? So it's an accountability thing. So I'm just wondering, did that bringing in other people's capital, not just the scale thing, but did it take you to another level in terms of professionalism and dynamism and actually the thinking big? As Grant Cardone says, doesn't he? He says, you know, the problem most investors in property is they think too small. That's right. And it did help us think that way. We couldn't now, as Nick mentioned, the 32 unit building, that's our biggest one. We wouldn't be at that point if we didn't A, bring people in and B, you know, maximize the potential of bringing people in, what it allows us to do. So we, when we started raising this money, like I said, it was more, okay, we can do a few projects at once now. But what it taught us is, okay, a lot of the capital we've raised, maybe came from sources we somehow already knew in our network that we hadn't really explored. And then we started exploring new sources. And what it taught us was you don't necessarily, even if you know, we didn't really know anyone to start who could just contribute 100 grand. A lot of people say, oh, you have friends and family money to start. We didn't really have that. But we just based on doing the projects and working in the industry for several years, we had a bigger network than we thought we did. And talking to people about, okay, this is what we need. This is what we can do. You can see our projects already. And then we talked to people. They see, okay, these guys are pretty smart. They have a good handle on this. They start seeing our story that, okay, all they need is more capital. We start talking to them about that. They talk to their friends, their colleagues. Before you know it, we have people who have called us who said, hey, so-and-so told us you guys are looking for some more capital. We wanna diversify, invest in real estate. Can we maybe work together? And it was very intentional on our part. There was a lot of intentionality to build that. But at the same time, some of it happened organically that we hadn't really expected. Just based on being open to talking with people about it and based on our having dealt with other contractors and doing other projects and just meeting people. So it kind of gave us the big thing I think it gave us is, okay, don't forgo any potential meeting with someone. Try to really talk with anyone who's interested in anyone tangentially related. And you never know what could come of that eventually. And it's about telling people what you're doing, what you're up to, what you want to do. And it's interesting because that concept you're talking about there is, we call it obviously we all know it's the scarcity versus abundance mindset, but not everyone does know that. And this idea that money is plenty of money, there's plenty of money and you can attract it to you. I don't just mean put your finger in the air and sing kumbaya, but the point is if you are intentional, if you're busy, if you put yourself out there, if you start doing stuff that you can do. And the interesting thing, I think there was a guest turned episode in the 30, 32 or 33 and there was one of the ideas of don't say, I can't or I haven't got. Say, what do I need to do to get more money? What do I need to do to be investible? It's that kind of, what do I need to do or how do I, as opposed to I can't or it's not possible. So interesting guys. So you got the business. I'm interested just to take a couple of steps back. I don't know what your personal situation is, but if you've got a partner or a wife or a boyfriend or in life, how do they fit into the equation? How did they fit into the equation when they joined you, if you have partners, in so far as you are relationship together, but it's a different kind of relationship, obviously. And then how did that change your personal situation? Because of course, when you have a partner or if you have a family, then of course, there are other demands for your money, and there's a pressure to spend more and buy a bigger house and have all the other things that go with it. I'm just interested in how you guys evolve that and how you handle those challenges and those temptations and those obligations. I mean, it's not as easy. I'm married, I have two kids, but I think we already had the company. When both of us met our current wives, we've been running it for a few years. And Eric can tell his mentality. We don't commiserate on how we approach dating and marriage. But for me, I kind of went in with the mentality. If I want to marry someone who I want to find someone who likes this lifestyle and wants to maybe not be involved with it, because I know for my parents, that's another avenue of potential stress. If you're both heavily involved, but almost semi-involved and on the sidelines. And that's pretty much what my wife spends. She's a real estate agent. So she's kind of involved. She sells houses. So she's kind of involved. And she just helped us bring in a really big million dollar investor. Last month. So she's a... She sounds like a keeper. Yeah, she's pretty good. She's helping us with our non-profit right now too. To be fair though, Nick, I'd love to hear about how the end of year appraisal goes with it. You know, yes, you've done very well. We've got a big deal in. Yes, you can stay on. So Eric, how is it with you and your partner? It's a little different. My wife works in the medical field. She's a physician assistant. So she's, you know, deals with surgeries. She's performing surgeries and very different field than this. And she likes it. You know, she likes what we're doing. Not super involved though. Doesn't know a lot about real estate other than sort of what I've taught her on the side. But I think it works out well for us because we have different personalities and we have sort of a yin and yang thing where it's like, she's very organized and to the point and a job like hers requires, you know, very early leaving of the house and returning very late and a lot of stress throughout the day. But then that's it. Then she can sort of shut it off. And whereas, you know, ours, Nick and I, this type of job is like, just constantly like on the mind. And you're never off duty as an entrepreneur. But interestingly, so you know as much about surgery as she does about property and real estate investing, right? So you don't bother swapping sort of insights with each other because it's not going to help you get ahead. No, I pick her brain like she's a doctor, or what she gets annoyed with, but you know. It's got this pain, yeah. Yes, literally that, yeah. Guys, I don't know if you say, Nick, you say you've got children. I'm just interested. I'm doing an Instagram Live tonight, and I've got a great guy called Will Rainey, who's fantastic. He's written a book all about how to teach children, but money's observed this all over the world. Just any thoughts about how you mentioned that? No, actually, I think it was Eric who mentioned he didn't want his kids to have like the hand-me-down hockey gear. But here's the paradox. And I don't know what the answer is. I've got some thoughts, but I'd like your ideas. One of the problems of entrepreneurial people is it starts out being economic motivation. We want the money, and then it becomes marking the score. Then it becomes legacy and what we leave behind and who we stand for in our identity. So how do we avoid our children spoiling our children? Even if we don't think we're spoiling, how do we avoid affluence that we never had? How do we avoid it making them lazy bums who squander all the money? Because part of what I'd also do is help families plan, prepare their heirs for the inheritance they're going to receive. So what's your thoughts on that? Just one of your ideas. I'm not saying you've got all the answers, but just your perspective on that. I think we're just going to be a strong, like my kids are very young. So I feel almost hypocritical, like trying to get my thoughts when I haven't even experienced it yet. But my theory is, is there's just going to be a emphasis on excellence and success, not from like a neurotic level, like you might see sometimes, like the sports dad or the tiger mom. I'm not going to do that. But there's going to be expectations, you know? It's not going to just be... Because sometimes growing up, for me, there's no expectations. Like I was, I did well in school, but that was just random. And I don't necessarily think that was the best approach. Sorry, mom and dad, but... I'm trying to like... Because I'm thinking about this issue that you're bringing up. I don't want to be affluent. And then, you know, there's that phrase about like the third generation, that it's all gone. Like the second generation starts squandering, the third generation. But then you got these families who've had money since like 500 years ago. So there's some way to do it. I'm trying to figure it out. And I think it's... There's got to be an expectation that you're going to live up to that same energy that your parents had. And like I said, it can't... The delicate balance is not doing it in a neurotic or damaging way. It just has to be kind of a light touch. Hey, still go and play with your friends. You're not reading books all day or whatever, but you are reading books 60% of the day. You know what I mean? So I think it's a balance. I'll let you know in 15 years. Yeah, we'll check in again and see how you go. And I'll do an appraisal. So Eric, what's your thoughts on that? Well, I see, Nick and I talk about psychology and philosophy a lot. We always have. And so I've sort of seen from just from the outside, him, this is something he talks about a lot, as he just said, is something he thinks about. And I plan to have kids somewhat soon. So eventually it will be an issue for me as well. But that is something we've actually talked about many times. And I see kind of how he's starting to deal with that. And I'm sort of learning from him close up. And I think one another thing is you look back, you know, your own childhood and think, okay, because that's before you have kids, that's kind of your only perspective on kids is, you know, when you're talking to 30 years ago, it's not necessarily easy to remember, but you think, okay, how did this go? And you start to see how you act and how you do things in life, probably had some basis in, you know, at that time, you know, when you're three, four, five, six years old, and you form sort of ideas and, you know, values, however you want to put it. And I think if you can start off the right way, of course, easier said than done, but you get your kids off on the right foot that, okay, I have these things, but I'm not, A, I'm not gonna take them for granted. I'm gonna understand sort of where they came from, but also not, don't force them into something. And again, I don't have kids, so I can't really justify this. I can't, I don't know how this would work exactly, but I just, I was never really forced into doing stuff. I was encouraged if I liked something and if I wanted to quit, I was sort of, you know, sports or whatever. I was told I wasn't just giving the green light to quit, but if I got to the point where I just hated it or whatever it was, I wasn't forced to do it. And that's the intent, you know, approach I want to take that. OK, let them figure out what they want to do, but also don't just let them off the hook with everything. They need to have some semblance of, you know, ethic, work ethic. That's right. And there's an old saying, if children need to have enough economic means to be able to do anything, but not so much, they can do nothing. And I think that's really sums it all up. So look, guys, that does. Yeah. So look, guys, obviously, I'm wary of the time we've got. Obviously, I could talk for hours to you guys. I love the energy that you're all about, and I really appreciate your time. But look, before you go, I just want to give you a really tough question, OK? And I just want you to see if you can give it your best shot at answering, because I really, really find this question evokes different responses. What is your definition of true wealth? I think for me, true wealth is basically the ability to do whatever you want, barring imposing your will on other people. That's my definition. Oh, that was succinct. My pride is never quite as succinct. I would say, yeah, it starts with a similar thing, to do whatever you want. Basically, to be able to do whatever you want at any point and never have the feeling of, oh, how am I going to pay for that? Not in the sense of like the electric bill, but maybe, even just that kind of mentality, to never have that thought again. If I never did and my kids don't and my family doesn't, my friends don't want to get to that point, I would feel truly wealthy. Fantastic answers, guys. Look, when I get back over to the States and now that COVID's kind of hopefully getting what we call a normal situation and we're all sort of just living with it, I'm going to check you guys out in Boston. I know it's a fantastic, beautiful city. I've always wanted to go for the jazz. Is the jazz in November or is it May? I can't remember. There's a jazz festival they have in Boston. I think it's May. But no, I'm going to see if I can get over there and I'll check you out and see what's going on. You can tell me all the best places to take my wife nice meals and cocktails and what have you. Look, Winterspring Capital is your firm. You've obviously got your foundation. We'll make sure there's links on the show notes for everyone. But look, it's been great having you, Nick Earls and Eric DiNicola. Really fantastic. Thank you for your insights. And I wish you all the very best with your business. Thanks so much for having us on. You as well. Thank you. Thanks for listening to Real Money Stories with me, Jason Butler. If you like what you hear, please do tell your friends. And more importantly, please rate us on your preferred podcast app, because it really does help us get the message out there. So until next time, good luck with your money journey. Real Money Stories is sponsored by Vanguard, bringing value to 30 million investors worldwide. Visit vanguardinvestor.co.uk for more details. The value of investments can go down as well as up, and you may get back less than you invested.