Hey, Story Pirates Podcast listeners, Lee here coming at you with a very special bonus episode. We'll be back with full brand new episodes in a few weeks. And in the meantime, I'm very excited to revive our Deep Cuts series. Grownups, did you know that ads only cover a small portion of what it costs to make this show? That's right, so if you'd like to help us keep making it, consider supporting Story Pirates by becoming a Creator Club member. There are so many perks including the ad-free version of the show. Premium members even get to participate in a quarterly video meetup with myself and Peter where we create a brand new story together for the podcast. But most of all, Creator Club members help us support the cost of the show so we can keep bringing it to you every week. If you're already a Creator Club member, thank you so much. And if you want to join, you can do so by visiting storypirates.com/creatorclub or subscribing right in Apple Podcasts. Get excited for some of the weirdest and funniest stories from the Story Pirates Archive. And this week, they're all about love. Coming up right after a few words for the grownups. I'm very different from everybody. Confusion is the step for curiosity. Okay, that's a really funny idea. We have to send that in. I just get some joy when I hear other people giggling. I believe all the things in my story. Human beings are just able to create. The Story Pirates. Welcome back to Story Pirates. Deep Cuts. Where we celebrate our favorite and weirdest stories from the Story Pirates archives. And today's Deep Cuts. Episode is all about love. Now, you may be thinking that you totally understand what I mean by love. But in the Story Pirates universe, love can mean so many different things. It could mean loving another person, of course, or an animal. But it could also mean falling deeply in love with a biogeochemical cycle that involves the continuous movement of water on above and below the surface of the earth. And this first story is about just that. Here's the author to introduce it. Hi, I'm Jordan. I'm 12 years old and I live in Colorado. This is my story, Dear Water Cycle. All right, class, this week you will each be working on a science report that you will present to the class on Friday. And before you ask, no, you don't get to choose the subject. I can only hear so many presentations on volcanoes. Instead, I will be assigning them at random. And right now, Leonard. Your subject is the states of matter. Solid. Or liquid or gas. Sometimes plasma. Jordan. You will be writing about the water cycle. Oh, the water cycle is kind of babyish. I'm gonna hate writing a report about it. Now, now, you might find you love the water cycle. Whatever you say, Mrs. Hawkins. All right, all right, that's the bell. You have your assignments. Remember, these reports are due Friday. Do you think I should bring it up? There's no way I could ever love the water cycle. But time to do some research. I'll start by watching a science video on the computer. Oh, here's one. Welcome back to Dorky Science Videos. I'm your host, Jet Dorky. Today, we're gonna talk about the water cycle. There are three major ways water moves through our world. Evaporation, the change of liquid water into vapor. Interesting. Condensation, the change from vapor back into liquid water. Huh? And precipitation, which you may know as rain, snow or hail. Wow. It's so beautiful, isn't it? The water cycle never ends. Water is always moving through our world and through our hearts. Huh, that Jet Dorky seems to really love the water cycle. I guess I should start writing. What is the water cycle? Oh, it's starting to rain outside. It's so funny how the water cycle does that. I guess it's sort of cute and endearing. Oh, it's getting colder and starting to hail. How strong and independent. Oh, it's starting to snow? Watching water change between its different states is making me feel a lot of things. Oh, wow. I never thought it would happen to me, but I think. I'm in love. Jordan, get off the table. This is the library. But Leonard, I'm in love. Aw, who's the lucky person? The Water Cycle. What? Jordan, you can't fall in love with an Earth science principal. I can't fight this feeling, Leonard. I'm going to walk home in the snow to spend some time with my love. But school isn't over yet. It's only- Jordan, it's time for dinner. Coming, Mom. Hey, kiddo. How was school? It was fine, Dad. Can I ask you a question? Of course. How did you two know you were in love? Oh, well, I met your father when we were in the same math class. Your mother and I have always shared a love of algebra. And well, I don't know, we fell in love. We sure did. Why do you ask, dear? Is there someone special in your class? No. Well, yes. Well, I don't know. What does your heart tell you? It's telling me that I'm in love. Oh, that's so cute. Who's the lucky person? The water cycle. Oh dear. Jordan, do you mean to tell me that you've fallen in love with the cycle of processes by which water moves through our planet? Yes, dad. And it feels so right. Well, hon, you're a human, and the water cycle is, well, the water cycle. So? So, we don't think it's a good idea. I thought you would be supportive. You can't fall in love with a cycle of processes. The water cycle infiltrated my heart like water infiltrates soil and rocks in the earth's crust, but you probably would never understand. Jordan! Sorry, Mom. I have a report to write. I'm going to my room. Sorry, I forgot you invented love! We handled that well, right? Okay, class, we're ready for your reports on random science subjects. You will now present your- I'll go! Oh, Jordan, I love the confidence. Please present your report. Okay, here goes nothing. Dear Water Cycle, over the past weeks, I've learned so much about you, and I've realized that I love you. I didn't want to believe it at first, but I just couldn't contain it. From the moment I found out we would be taking our first notes on you, I felt something. Are you okay, Jordan? I absolutely love how you make it rain, snow, and hail. It overcomes my soul. Your rain becomes runoff, and, oh dear me, I'm not sure I can go on without falling for you even more. I remember all those moments when people were embarrassed to even say your name. But I think the best thing that ever happened to this world was Water Cycle-themed dorky science videos. Water Cycle, the way you condense, evaporate, rain, it's honestly overwhelming. It's the best magic trick ever performed. I have to say thank you for making my life 10 times brighter and making my brain twice the size from your knowledge. I love you. Thank you, Jordan, for that beautiful report. Well, this is why I started teaching. Thanks, Mrs. Hawkins. Oh, Jordan, that was beautiful. Mom, dad? We're so proud of you. We talked about it, and we support you, Jordan. That's right, and I can't wait to meet this water cycle. Oh, look, it's starting to rain outside. I love you, Water Cycle. And I love you, Jordan. Water Cycle? The end! Well, well, well, that was indeed a Story Pirates. De-correct. It was absolutely beautiful. An epic love story for the ages. Now, what other kinds of love can we do a story about? How about something more conventional, like, I don't know, loving cats. But let's wrap it in an epic adventure animal buddy road trip that actually only mentions love once, very briefly at the very end of the story. Here's the author to introduce it. Hello, my name is Andrew. I'm seven years old. I live in Washington, DC and this is my story. I love cats. Hello, is this where Andrew the Cat lives? Meow, that's me, Andrew the Cat. Oh, well, I'm your new mail carrier, so I just wanted to make sure I had your address right. Now, let me just check my mail bag here. Looks like you've got no mail, no letters, no invitations, no cards. Andrew, don't you have any friends? No, I don't see what the big deal is. Why is having friends so important? I'm perfectly happy all by myself. Well, makes my job easier. Goodbye, Andrew. Friends, who needs them? Anyway, let's see what's on TV. And that's all for tonight's evening news. Wait a minute, this just in. There's an intruder breaking into our news studio right now. I'm currently being asked to hand over my microphone, and oh, so you're just going to take my microphone, okay? Got it. I'm gonna go cower in fear. For Channel 6, this is Chet Beckley saying, Mommy. Greetings, puny citizens of the kingdom. It is I, Gibles the Rhino. I have placed a spell on the king, a spell so powerful that he would practically need a new life just to survive. I am your new ruler. Kneel, kneel before Gibles. You there, cameraman, why are you laughing? I'm sorry. You're very intimidating. Really, I am truly scared right now. It's just Gibles is such a funny name. It's a perfectly normal name. Stop laughing. God, bring this cameraman to the dungeon. Wait, what? No, you can't. Who will man the camera? Who will man the camera? No! Oh, no! What am I gonna do now? I know what you could do. Mail carrier? What are you doing in my window? Well, you were my last stop for the day and then you turned on your TV and I could see it right through the window. Now you know how it goes. Anyway, don't you have nine lives what with being a cat and all? You could give the king one of your nine lives. Oh, well, I suppose I could. No, but then I'd have to go outside and see people and talk to them. Look, suit yourself, but it seems to me like the Almighty King's in trouble and you're the only person in the whole kingdom who can help. So, you know, you could help or you could stay here with your no male. Your call. Fine. Okay, I guess I'll help the king. I just gotta make my way to the castle, which is just past the forest. To the forest! I think I'm lost. Let's see. Okay, if the sun's over there and moss is growing on this side of the trees, then I think north must be... Ah! An elephant! Can I help you? Oh, you scared me. Who are you? My name is Ellie and I'm an elephant. Also, I'm the smartest animal in the world. Well, I'm Andrew the Cat and I... Sorry about that, hairball. Yuck. Hey, you look kind of lost. Need anything? Uh, no, definitely not. Are you sure? Because it kind of looks like you don't know where you're going. Well, I know where I'm going, okay? I, uh, I just don't know how to get there. I'm going to the castle to give the king one of my nine lives. That's a very noble mission. Can I come with you? You know, it's really more of a solo mission, so if you could just give me directions, that'd be great. Oh, I understand. You just head up this path, then it's a right, then a left, then a left, then a right, bear left of the fork, then give a fork to the bear. He never has enough utensils. Ah, you know what? Maybe you should just come with me. All right, let's go. Hey, weird question. Does your mail carrier ever stop to hang out in your window and just like, chat? Shh, I think I hear something. Oh, look, it's a dragon. Run away. Wait, no, I think she's crying. Excuse me, is everything okay? What? Oh, yes, I'm okay. Thank you for asking. This rhino named Gibbles asked my brother to help him, and now I think he's in trouble. Did you say Gibbles the Rhino? We're on our way to stop him now. You should come with us. Maybe we can help your brother too. Oh, whoa, sidebar. Ellie, are you really sure you want to invite this dragon along with us? We don't know her. She could be anyone. She could be as tricky and treacherous as a snake. Hey. Oh, sorry, snake. Didn't see you there. No one ever does. Okay, yes, Emily could be anyone, but everyone's an anyone, Andrew. You just won't know until you meet them. Fine, sidebar over. Hey, Emily, could you give us a ride? Why don't you two climb on my back and we'll fly right up to the castle? All right, well, then I'll just use my cat claws to climb up on top of you. Okay, my turn. I'll just jump on your back. Oh, Emily, are you okay? I'm fine. Let's just fly to the castle as fast as possible, okay? Here we go. Wow, flying is so much fun. Yeah, who would have ever thought an elephant could fly? Wait, didn't they make a whole movie about that? I don't own a TV. And we're here. Wow, we're on top of the tallest tower in the castle. Look in that window. It's the king and he's in bed because of the spell. Let's all climb through the window. I'll go first. Andrew, I know that was easy for you because you're a cat, but this is a tiny, tiny window, and I don't know if an elephant like me is going to fit. Come on, Ellie, just try it. Okay, here I go. I made it. Okay, Emily. and we're, you know, sharing an experience, and I enjoy spending time with them, and I really care about them, and hey, wait a minute! I guess they are my friends! Well, Your Highness, meet my new friends, Ellie the Elephant and Emily the Dragon. Whoa! What's this? Look, it's Gibles the Rhino and my brother, James! Hi, sis! I'm bad now. Who dares awaken the king from his slumber, and how? I gave him one of my nine lives. Who are you? I'm Andrew the Cat. Meow! Well, I am Gibles the Rhino of the house Cariso Dactyla, first of his name, the unburnt king of the... What's so funny? I'm sorry, it's just Gibles is such a funny name. Why you... Not so fast. Magic. Whoa. You just hit me and James with your magic, and I feel different. I feel good. Hey, everybody, James and I are good again. Hey, sis, I'm good now. Now, I do believe that some rewards are in order. Emily, we all know that dragons use their breath to cook their food. For instance, pizza. That must be exhausting. So here is a spell that will allow you to cook anything. Thanks, your highness. I love cooking. I love dragons. Ellie the Elephant. Here is a spell that will turn anything that is not living into peanuts. Peanuts? That's my favorite food. I love peanuts. I love elephants. And Andrew, for giving me one of your nine lives and saving the kingdom. Here is a spell that will turn anything that is not a living thing into yarn. That's my favorite thing to play with. I love yarn. How did you know? Just a guess. Because I love cats. You know, I think I finally figured it out. Having friends is good, because friends help each other. I'm glad I made all these new friends today. Boy, what a satisfying ending. Mail carrier? What are you doing in the window? Well, after you left, I didn't really have anything to do, and then you went on this adventure, and I really wanted to see how it ended. You know how it goes. But how did you make it all the way through the forest, climb all the way up the tallest tower of the whole castle, and squeeze your way through that tiny, tiny window? Neither snow, nor rain, nor heat, nor tiny windows stays this courier from the swift completion of his appointed rounds. Do you have any mail for me? Uh, no. Oh, man. The end! We'll be right back after a few words for the grown-ups. As a podcast network, our first priority has always been audio and the stories we're able to share with you. But at Realm, we also sell some pretty cool merch, and organizing that was made both possible and easy with Shopify. When you think about successful businesses like Allo or Allbirds or Skims, an often overlooked secret is the business behind the business that makes selling and for shoppers buying simple. For millions of businesses, that business is Shopify. That's because nobody does selling better than Shopify. It's the home of the number one checkout on the planet. And the not so secret secret that's definitely worth talking about is that shop pay boosts conversions up to 50%. That's more happy customers and way more sales going. If you're hoping to grow your business, your commerce platform better be ready to sell wherever your customers are scrolling or strolling on the web, in your store, in their feed and everywhere in between. Businesses that sell more, sell on Shopify. Upgrade your business and get the same checkout we use with Shopify. Sign up for your $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/realm, all lowercase. Go to shopify.com/realm to upgrade your selling today. shopify.com/realm. Aren't adventurers supposed to have a specific purpose? What are you doing on this quest? Just meeting strangers? Yep, my purpose is to have no purpose. Though, I sort of find purpose as I go. My basket, it's missing. I have tried many means of defense, but none have yet proven successful. I just wish someone would succeed in getting that darn sword. I am under attack by this ruffian. I want to be big and strong and fight evil. I have hope that if you show up at her door, she might listen. Want to help me yell at them with your sword in a threatening manner? SideQuesting is a fantasy podcast about avoiding the main plot. It follows Ryan, an adventurer who's willing to help just about anyone out, as long as they're not being asked to deal with that scary wizard everyone keeps talking about. Subscribe today on your favorite podcast app. Oh, hey, welcome back to Deep Cuts. We've got time for one more Today About Love, and this time, I wanted to go way, way, way, way, way, way back into the Story Pirates archives, all the way back to the early years. In fact, this next story has never been heard before on the podcast. It harkens back to our live radio show. We did many, many, many years ago. Some of you probably weren't even born when we did this. This story has another unique take on love. It's about ghosts, loving ghosts. From a second grader in Maryland named Alexander, here's Cupid and the Ghost. Hello, class. Welcome to Ghostology 101. I'm a professor of ghostology. Today's lesson is all about ghosts and also love. Um, professor? Yes, do you have a question? Yeah, um, do ghosts fall in love? Ah, a very good question indeed. Allow me to answer your question with a story. Once upon a time, there were two ghosts. Hello, I'm a Halloween ghost. I'm also a Halloween ghost. Well, isn't that something? And indeed, it was something. For you see, Halloween ghosts usually only come out on Halloween. But the good ones also come out on Valentine's Day. And these two ghosts were among the best. What do you know? Today is Valentine's Day. Yay, let's go to the park. Okay, but how will we get there? Let's slowly hover. And slowly hover they did, until at last they arrived at the park, invisible to everyone. Hey, toss me that frisbee. Oh, whoa, what a great park. Hey, Wendy, did you see that? See what? Over there, don't you see? Nothing's happening. Curtis, why would you even bother to say that out loud? I'm under a lot of pressure at work, Wendy. You see, those normal people couldn't see the ghosts. The only people who could see them were magical creatures, like Cupid. Being Cupid sure is a tough job. Flying around all day, making people fall in love. If I didn't have these adorable wings growing out of my spine, I don't know what I'd... What's this? Is that two ghosts I see? I'd better hit them with my love arrows All right, here goes. Ow! Oh no! The arrow went straight through the ghost and hit that lady. Curtis, I think I'm in love with you. Um, Professor? Uh, yes, what is it? How come he was shooting arrows at ghosts if they ain't got no bodies? Uh, yes, well, before we continue with the story, I'd like to take a moment to tell you a little bit about ghosts. Um, Professor? What is it? Well, what's a core? Is it like an appley core? Uh, you see, all right. Well, it's like where they keep their spirits. It's also incredibly small, about one half of one quarter of a centimeter. It's very hard to hit. No, Professor! What? What are these ghosts' names? Why, I almost forgot to mention, these ghosts were named Mr. Spirit and Miss Spirit. All right, are there any more questions? No, Professor. No more questions, back to the story. Ahem. Up and up and up. Cupid tried 100 times to hit them with his love arrows, but the arrows kept missing their core and hitting the people in the park. Everybody in the park was falling in love. Listen, I know you're an old woman and I'm just an oak tree, but I think the two of us could be very happy together. How come you're alive? I love you so much. Until finally, Cupid shot a love arrow that hit Mr. Spirit directly in his core. Ow. Yes, I'm the best. I feel strange. I think- Yes? I think- What is it, Mr. Spirit? I think I'm in love with you. Oh, dude, gross. No, no, no. There are hearts in my eyes. Will you marry me? No way. We're ghosts. We can't get- Ow. I'm awesome. There are hearts in my eyes now. Let's get married. And so they got ghost married in an old spooky church. In Africa, no less. Haha. Some place called Legend Graveyard. Sounds scary, doesn't it? But actually, no. It's nice. Oh, what a nice neighborhood. And so the two ghosts settled down and lived in Mr. Spirit's tomb, where they had twenty ghost babies who looked like tiny marshmallows. Yeah, I'm professor. What is it? What happened to Cupid? I have no idea what happened to him. Yeah, I'm professor. What do you want? Can I go to the bathroom? No, you have to wait until the end of the story, which is right now. The end. And that's it for today's Deep Cuts! Episode, thanks for listening. We'll be back next week with another one for ya. Until then, stay creative and stay kind.