This week, I took my friends to a restaurant that I had recently discovered for Chinese hot pot, a delicious dining experience where you cook your own food in a bubbling pot of soup. When we turned up, though, I was a bit confused. The place looked kind of different to how I remembered it, but the food was still tasty. On the way home, I learned that the restaurant I had been raving about was actually a totally different establishment two doors down, and the place we had just eaten in was rated zero for food hygiene. I shudder to think what they might have had scurrying around in their kitchen. I'm Anand Jagatia, from the BBC World Service. This is Unexpected Elements. You won't have heard my voice on Unexpected Elements before, but you might have heard me on CrowdScience, its sister show on the World Service. I am super excited to be swapping mics and be in the hot seat of our Cardiff studio today, not least because while this is my first episode, it's actually the 100th episode of Unexpected Elements. Woohoo! Joining me for this centenary is a panel of brilliant journalists from around the world. Dialing in from Lamu, Kenya is Christine Yohannes. Hujumbo Anand. And on the line from Helsinki, Finland, is Tristan Ahtone. Onde, onde, and bon. Hello, nice to be here. Great to have you with us. This is the show that starts with something happening in the world and uses that as a springboard to jump in all sorts of directions, so we can bring you the science stories you least expect. Here's a hint as to what grabbed our attention this week. The rats are absolutely going to hate this announcement. And New York has appointed its first rat czar. OK, the poor old rat. I see them along the sidewalks, you know, in the subway tunnels, in the city's alleyways. And with those sailors came rats. But the rats don't run this city. The dear old brown rat. The self-professed rat hater. We do. Yes, if you haven't guessed, the theme of this episode is rats. And that's because today is, well, of course, it's World Rat Day. I'm not exactly sure who gets to decide when something gets its own day, but the Unexpected Elements team isn't complaining because it gives us plenty of science to gnaw on. And love them or hate them, rats are pretty incredible creatures. I couldn't agree more, Anand. One thing we know for sure about rats is that they are highly adaptable creatures. Their ability to adjust to various environmental conditions, including poisons, is great for them, but then it's obviously a major challenge on pest control. I was in awe when I found out that rat poison needs to be modified regularly, just to remain effective, because rats adapt to poisons so well. It's like rats have superpowers. Yeah, it's kind of scary, isn't it? And I've read reports of the rise of the super rat in recent years. Is this what you're talking about? And if so, how are rats able to resist poison? I know it sounds terrifying, but lots of cities have noticed a rise in rats that are really hard to kill, and it turns out that there's likely three main reasons for that. First of all, rats are what you would call neophobic, which means, as the name suggests, they have a fear of new things. Fear of phobia, new neo. It's like the old saying, isn't it? Curiosity killed the cat, and also the rat, it turns out. Indeed. And these rats are clever as well as cautious. Can you imagine that they learn to associate certain smells and tastes with danger? So basically, after encountering a poison once, they're very wary of eating it again. Brings to mind another famous saying, fool a rat once, shame on you. Fool a rat twice, ain't happening. Exactly, Anand. Another helpful rat trait is that they hoard their food. So many poisons become less potent over time. And so if rats happen to save their poisoned food for later, it just doesn't do as much harm anymore. No clever rat puns or sayings for me today, but I do have to say being cautious in hoarding food doesn't exactly sound like superhero level skills, Christine. I agree, Tristan. And I know you're waiting for master splinter level skills, but I'm saving the coolest power for last. Rats have developed genetic resistance to certain poisons through natural selection. So rats that survive exposure to particular poisons pass on their resistant traits to the future generation. So it begins with like a random genetic mutation that occur naturally in a rat population. I'm so glad you managed to throw in a master splinter reference there. So for anyone who doesn't know what that is, that's the way he was like the rat sensei of the teenage mutant ninja turtles. So super rats then have mutations that help them to break down poisons. Exactly. So different rodenticides have varying active ingredients. These are anticoagulants like warfarin and bromadiolone. There's also neurotoxins like Brodifacum and zincphosphide. I haven't heard of any of them except for warfarin, and I have a cool fact about this. So it's an anticoagulant, like you said, so it stops blood clotting, and it means it basically causes rodents to bleed to death, which sounds really nasty. But the flip side is, in humans, it's a life-saving medicine. We use it to treat blood clots, reduce the risk of heart attacks and strokes, and it's actually one of the most prescribed drugs in the world. One rat's poison is another man's treasure, as the saying goes, right, Anand? So in environments where rats are exposed to poison, those with the resistant mutation are more likely to survive and pass down those genes, which makes sense due to natural selection. On the other hand, non-resistant rats are more likely to be eliminated from the population by the poison. So the lucky mutants will become the norm in a population. Exactly Tristan, as time goes on and more generations are born and then reproduce, the gene variant for poison-resistant becomes more common, and the overall rat population becomes resistant to the poison, forcing exterminators to switch poison plans altogether. But I want the record to show that I personally wouldn't want to exterminate rats. Yeah, I know what you mean because we had mice in our house last winter, and while I didn't really want them there, I also wanted to get rid of them as humanely as possible, but we didn't really get off to a good start because the first one I accidentally squashed with a chopping board. Oh my goodness. Sounds horrendous. It sounds like something out of a cartoon, and it startled me in the kitchen, and I just went, and just sort of dropped the chopping board, and I was like, I don't want to deal with this right now, I'm just going to go to bed. And then in the morning, I expected that it had run away, but it actually just got completely turned into a pancake. Like I don't think it's really going to be an effective method for best control. In a moment, we'll be hearing more about ways to deal with rodents that don't involve squashing. But before that, producers Imaan and Noa have been learning more about a rat problem that humanity may have faced a very long time ago. I can't believe our time travel experiment worked, Noa. And where have we ended up? According to my calculations, Imaan, we're in Wales in the year 1350. Uh-oh. What's wrong? Well, that's the middle of the plague. The Black Death. Europe is the worst place to be. Like, half the people there died, and it took 150 years for the population to recover. That's not good. Let's reset and get back to- Ooh, look! A rat! What? Where? Are you afraid of rats? Do you know what spread the plague? I'll tell you. It's rats. Rats have fleas, and those fleas have Yersinia pestis, the bacteria that causes the plague. So seeing a rat right now? Bad news. Don't you dare pick up that rat, Noa. Aww, these poor rats get such a bad reputation, and the plague being all their fault just isn't true. It's a highly debated topic for historians, but some believe that the plague could have been triggered by human body lice, which researchers recently found to be better plague transmitters than previously expected. Body lice would have been big back then. I mean, right now. Time travel's weird. And it's not just human body lice. Human fleas probably cause more harm. Another team of researchers modeled different ways the plague could have spread, considering rats, human fleas, lice, and an airborne vector. In most cases, the model that best fit the plague's mortality data was actually the human parasites, not rats. Listen, no matter what spread the plague, the one thing I do know is that I am not catching it. Thank you very much. I'm leaving now. Hey, you can't leave me here. Fine, but you're standing on the other side of the machine. Luckily, Imaan and Noa made it safely back to produce this show. I'm just hoping that none of us have caught anything from them. Okay, so Tristan, over to you. We're going to go deeper down the rabbit hole, or I guess it's actually more of a rat's nest this week. Where do you want to go next? Well, there has been a rat war raging in the United States ever since settlers arrived in North America, bringing European diseases and rodents with them. And one of the most notorious theaters has been New York City. There's an estimated 3 million rats currently living in this city, but now New York's battle with them is entering a new era and an effort to reduce or at least nominally disrupt that massive population. 3 million rats is a lot of rats. I'm guessing it's hard to get rid of that many. Yeah, basically. The first part of the plan involves lacing tasty food with rat contraceptives, which will reduce rat numbers but won't poison the birds of prey. And the second part of the plan is effective trash management. New York's notorious for its trash. People put theirs in a plastic bag, out on the curb and any rat, bird or bug can get into it. It's very, very 19th century. But it feels like this would be quite an easy fix, no? Just stick the trash bags in a bin somewhere. Yeah, you're right, Christine. The city is moving to containerize its trash. Basically, people will be required to put it in a container with a lid and then trash collectors will empty that container into a truck and take it away. Revolutionary. Yeah, sometimes the simplest solutions are the best, right? So did that work for the people in New York? Well, the container rule took effect last autumn and so far, calls to officials about rats dropped by almost a quarter within two months once households started containerizing their trash. I love how there has to be like an official term for this process, this advanced procedure, containerization of trash. So could containerization of trash make a dent in this 3 million strong population? Probably. But when going deeper into the rats' nest, I found that much further south in Sydney, Australia, officials have a much different way of dealing with these invasive rats. They use rat-on-rat warfare. Okay, that's... I've never heard of that before. Would you be able to elaborate please, Tristan? Well, as the area around Sydney was colonized by settlers, the native bush rat population plummeted due to habitat destruction, urbanization, cats and foxes dining on them, and then hordes of black rats overrunning their territory. Could you tell me where does the rat-on-rat warfare come in? Well, a few years ago, the Australian Wildlife Conservancy released native bush rats back into the North Head Sanctuary in Sydney. Since bush rats are super-territorial, they fought off the invasive rats. And when the invasive rats left, researchers also found that there were a lot of ecosystem services that bush rats provided, like pollination, seed dispersal. Essentially, native bush rats are complementary to the landscape, and they improve the area's ecosystem. Nice. Sounds like quite a good solution. Everybody wins. Well, I guess the invasive rats don't win, but that's the point. Yeah, and researchers are seeing this rewilding effort as a big win in Australia. And this could be a template for future approaches to not just remove invasive species, but rebalance ecosystems degraded by European settlement. Nice one. Well, thanks for sharing that, Tristan. And listeners, we would like to hear from you too on this. Do you have any either funny or really horrible stories on rats to share with us? If you had a rodent problem that you're happy to divulge, then tell us how you dealt with it. You can email us, unexpected at bbc.co.uk, or you can WhatsApp us, plus 44 330 678 3080 or good old-fashioned snail mail. The address is Unexpected Elements, BBC World Service, Cardiff, CF 10 4GA. Hey, it's Noa and it's time for this week's Unexpected Elements quiz. Hair is something that most of us have all over our bodies. It's a major part of our identity. You know, we style it and dye it to show our individuality. And it's very similar to how an animal's fur makes them different from each other. For example, no two calico cats will ever look the same. Now what we want to know is, what's the difference between hair and fur? Is it A, texture, B, length, or C, there's no difference? Hair and fur come in all different colours and textures. But what's the actual difference between hair and fur? Is it A, texture, B, length, or C, there's no difference? Try not to go pulling your hair out thinking of the answer. We'll be back soon. Every week, we get a load of emails and messages from you lots, our wonderful listeners, and that includes a selection of rather brilliant questions. It's time for Ask the Unexpected. This week, we've got an email from Lindsay who says, Whenever I get hiccups, someone always tells me to drink water upside down to get rid of them. Does this actually do anything? What's the science behind it if it does? Thanks, Lindsay, we're on the case. Dr. Matt Antonucci is a neurologist that we reached out to to ask whether drinking water upside down can really cure hiccups. There's no scientific backing behind that whatsoever. Drinking water upside down might actually be more dangerous than anything with the possibility of inhaling the liquid, choking, falling in your head, getting hurt and so on. Understanding why hiccups actually occur is the key to figuring out the basis of how to treat them. Here we go, hiccups. They occur due to either the vagus nerve being irritated or a temporary glitch in your brain stem circuitry. That sounds really scary but happens to everybody all the time. Think of deja vu or a little brief moment of tinnitus or even getting a song stuck in your head that you can't get out of your mind. Those are all glitches somewhere in the brain. So more often hiccups occur by the glitches. In this case what ends up happening is the brain stem's breathing pacemaker, which regulates our respiratory rhythm in and out, malfunctions and basically you inspire more than you expire, which is basically where we get that characteristic diaphragmatic contraction that causes that hiccup sound. So in order to stop this what we really need to do is stabilize the brain stem circuitry. Fortunately, there is a brain stem reflex that inhibits this overactive pacemaker. So one of the most effective ways of eliminating hiccups is to activate this hearing-bewer reflex. It's also called the hyperinflation reflex. It's a reflex designed to protect our lungs from over-inflating, so it won't allow us to in-breathe in anymore. So activating this reflex is like pressing the brakes on a car that's running away downhill. It slows it down and it stabilizes that erratic breathing pattern. To trigger this reflex, you take a deep breath in, hold your nose, and they continuously sip in small amounts of air through your lips until you feel like your lungs are fully, fully inflated, and try to go a little farther. It's completely safe and it engages this reflex and nearly is 100% effective in stopping common hiccups. So they'll hold your breath or drink water upside down. They're all close. They just need a little bit of functional neurology fine tuning. Thank you so much to Dr. Matt Antonucci. I feel like that's genuinely life-changing advice. I didn't know that. And thank you to Lindsay for the question. I find hiccups incredibly annoying, so it's very good to have a scientifically proven method of getting rid of them. Listeners, what about you? Do you have any special techniques for getting rid of hiccups or myths that you want us to bust? If you do and you have a question that you want us to answer, then email us on unexpected at bbc.co.uk, or you can send us a message or a voice note on WhatsApp. It's plus 44 330 678 3080. Now, we've heard a lot in this episode about the damage that rats can cause, but rats are also incredibly social animals, which makes them really useful models for studying behaviour, things like fear, navigation or even play. Yep, it turns out that rats seem to enjoy a good old-fashioned game of hide and squeak. See what I did there? But earlier this week, I spoke to Dr Michael Brecht, who is Professor of Neurobiology at the Humboldt University of Berlin, and I started by asking him how he came to be playing hide and seek with rats. I checked actually the internet for what pet owners were talking about, what they do with their rats, and one of the things that came up numerous times there is that they were raving about how much their animals like to play hide and seek, and then we tried it out. I love this. So are they right? Like, I'm curious as to whether the rats are just like good at finding things, and they're good at not being found when they don't want to be, or whether they're actually playing. We thought very much that they play, and we thought that they somehow have it in them. They were in ways very smart about playing hide and seek, that we didn't think we taught them. We thought they have it in them. So it seems like they're good at hiding, and they're good at hide and seek innately. But I guess the other aspect of playing is that it's got to be fun, right? So you think that they were sort of enjoying the experience of playing hide and seek. Very much that's what we felt. So I should maybe explain a little bit how we trained them. So when they would hide properly and we find them, they get a little reward that we tickle them. And we of course wondered, is it just about the tickling? Do they really like the game? And if you looked at their behavior closely, for example, one thing they would often do is we find them and then they run away again and hide again. So this delays the actual reward. This delays the tickling. And also it's cheating, right? But it made us very strongly feel, oh yeah, they like hiding. It's not about a reward or so. Okay, so originally the tickling itself was the reward, but then you found that even if they didn't get the reward, they would still engage in this behaviour, which kind of implies that they're doing it for its own sake. I mean, it reminds me of other kinds of games that you see children play, but also animals play, right? Like kids love playing tag or catch games of chase. And I have a dog, my dog's called Stella. She loves being chased. And she does like finding, like if I tell her to sit and then I run away and hide somewhere, she will come and find me. So I guess it does not that much of a leap to think that hiding and seeking could form part of animal play. Yeah, dogs are great at seeking in particular. They are wonderful at this. Chasing, I think, is also very similar across humans and rats and other animals. And just to circle back to something you mentioned at the start of the interview, can you just tell us a little bit more about tickling rats in the lab? The animals are very eager to be tickled. And then there is also this complicated thing. You would tickle rats, and they seem to be enjoying it, but all of a sudden they show escape responses, and they would do an alarm call, and things that totally did not fit into the behaviour. But what we found is actually very much the same as in children. You tickle them, they kick, they shout, they shout for help, they kick you, they push you away. As soon as you stop, they come running after you to be tickled more. It's just amazing that rats have the same sort of responses as humans. I mean, ticklishness is that weird thing where you hate it and you want it to stop, but you're also laughing and you're kind of enjoying it at the same time. And the rats do the same thing. Why is it important to study play in humans and other animals? I think these playful capacities of our brain, they are underrated facility. So, often people think that play is something simple and childish. And when you start playing with animals, you find out that some of the most complicated behavior that we've seen in animals, you get the feeling that the rats do something like perspective taking, that they think about what the human player does. And this is something very hard to find in other behaviors. So I think play is very complex and our brain is built to play. There you go, we really shouldn't underestimate the importance of play in children and adults too. Thank you Michael Brecht. Maybe the next time I see a rat in the street, I'll see if it will play hide and seek with me, although I don't think I would like to tickle one anytime soon. So this episode we've done a deep dive into rats. Christine, what did you bring? Why rat exterminators constantly need to switch up their rat poison and it's all mainly due to mutating rats? And what about you, Tristan? Alternative methods of rat population control around the world like contraceptives, waste management and rat-on-rat warfare. And we also learned about what rats can teach us about playing games and how we can scientifically and definitively stop the hiccups. Still to come, what it means to rat on other people, how rats' sense of smell can actually save lives, and I tell the story of how prehistoric people dealt with their rubbish problem. This is Unexpected Elements from the BBC World Service. I'm Anand Jagatia in Cardiff, Wales, and I'm here with... Christine Yohannes in Lamu, Kenya. And... Tristan Ahtone in Helsinki, Finland. So far in today's episode, we've been looking at furry rodents with tails that squeak, but people can be rats too, in the sense of ratting someone out, that is to say telling or snitching on someone. And someone who knows all about this is Zach Berry, who's joining us now from the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California. And Zach's been studying how people judge those who rat or snitch on other people in the workplace. Hi Zach. Hi, thanks so much for having me. It's great to be here. I guess even the use of the word rat in this context suggests there's a bit of a value judgment being made about whistleblowers. It's not a particularly nice word, is it, to rat someone? That's right, yeah. I think there's a strong negative connotation that we have with the term snitching, where even though it seems like it can be a positive thing, where you're uncovering some wrongdoing in an organization, for example, there's still this negative connotation that you are snitching, that you're doing something, going behind people's backs to share information about something that's ongoing, and we tend to have a negative association with that word. Yeah, I mean, ratting, snitching, they basically sound like school playground sort of words, but when we move to the adult world, we use the word whistleblower, don't we? And that seems to have less of a kind of moral judgment about it. There's also, I think, an important nuance between how I'm thinking about snitching and what whistleblowing is, where whistleblowing really is a sort of formal, legally protected process that people engage in to uncover some sort of usually wrongdoing and corruption in an organization. Snitching, however, isn't necessarily a formal process. It's simply telling someone else about something that you heard. So even if you're not going through this sort of legally protected formal process that is whistleblowing, simply sharing information about something that you have learned about in the organization or just in everyday life is an example of snitching. I think that's partly why it has such a stronger negative connotation than whistleblowing. And at the heart of your work about snitching are really questions about loyalty. So tell us about how loyalty plays a role in these situations. Yeah, so some of my research and even research by other people in my field has long looked at what are the factors that either contribute to snitching on others or that hinder the snitching process. For a long time, the wisdom in this world has suggested that loyalty is a key component for people to remain silent and to not snitch. We've looked at this from the context of specific relationships. So people that I am specifically loyal to, I'm close to this person, we have a specific loyal relationship. But even people who just tend to value loyalty more than others are also less likely to speak up and snitch on any sort of wrongdoing or corruption that they learn about. It really highlights that this is a complicated sort of ethical area, right? We all want to do the right thing, but like who is the right thing for and how do we do it? So to answer this question from a research perspective, you got some participants and you presented them with these different dilemmas where they had to make a choice, a difficult choice. So we were thinking that maybe we could try some of these out. Would you be able to go through one of these dilemmas with us? And obviously listeners, if you're listening to this, you can play along as well. Yeah, absolutely. The first question that I would ask or present to you all is imagine that you're at work and you observe a colleague of yours stealing from the organization. Maybe it's office furniture, maybe it's something specifically from another employee. And you don't know this person very well, you know that they work in your organization, but you see them engaging in this clear wrongdoing. And so the question is, well, what would you do? Would you stay silent or would you report that person? I'm going to let Christine and Tristan jump in on this one first. What would you guys do? Is there not a third option to just talk to them and figure out what's going on first? So that could be a third option. Yeah, that's a very interesting suggestion. A lot of the research that I've been looking at and that has been done in this context where you don't actually know the person very well, people don't select that third option. So that third option comes into play when you actually have a relationship with the person, which is the second scenario, which is how does this change or how does what you think you would do change as a function of your relationship to the person who's doing that wrongdoing? Wouldn't it also depend on what kind of stealing we're talking about? Is it just paper or are we talking about actual equipment and things that could hurt or damage the business? Wouldn't that also make a difference in our reactions and the conversations that would be had? Yeah, so in one of our scenarios that we presented to people, we looked at a situation where someone was stealing maybe $1,000 worth of furniture compared to about $10,000 worth of furniture. And in these situations, we see that people's reactions and judgments of those who decide to speak up or decide to remain silent are actually pretty similar. What we find consistently across different types of wrongdoing, so whether it's theft, it could be sexual harassment, different levels of severity for the consequences of snitching or not snitching. We constantly see across these different situations that people are judged as more moral for snitching but also less loyal. So I think, I mean, for me, the big difference between if you know somebody and you're invested in your relationship with them, then there's a cost to take action against that person. And whereas I guess if it's someone you don't really know, I feel like I wouldn't really find it very difficult to snitch on that person, I guess. That's right. Yeah. So a lot of what we've been focusing on is just judgments by third-party observers. So we're just evaluating a situation where someone decides to snitch on a close friend or not snitch or snitch on just a colleague at work that you don't know very well or not snitch on them. Just to pause for a moment because I'm slightly hung up on language. Snitching or ratting, in my mind, tend to be language used in criminal enterprises, right? Like not corporate workplaces. And I think beyond that, I'm a journalist, so it's my job to uncover things that people want to keep hidden, which I don't really think of as ratting. But because of that difference in language, I often think of ratting as an act to gain power or save yourself with a blowing tens often, but not always to be an act to save an institution or reveal it for what it is. Does your research sort of dive into this area at all? Yeah. One thing that we've looked at is specifically how different motives of the person who's snitching can affect how people view that individual. You could think of self-interested motives. The person who did something wrong happens to be up for a promotion that I'm also going up for, and so that gives me a self-interested motive. So even though snitching on some unethical behavior that they've done is in the eyes of most people, a moral thing to do across our scenarios, when you have that self-interested motive, that changes things, and so people actually no longer give you that moral benefit that you get for snitching absent that self-interested motive. We've also looked at it in the context of negative relationships. So if I actually just don't like you as a person, or I have a grudge against you, again, you don't get a moral benefit for snitching when you have that sort of disdain towards the person you're snitching on. I mean, something I'm thinking of is that whichever of the options you decide to go for, there's going to be consequences, right? I mean, does your research help in terms of maybe making those consequences a bit more real for people and informing what decisions they might make? Yeah, so the research I've been doing in this regard suggested a reputational trade-off that always exists in these situations. And so I've been saying that you get a moral benefit for snitching, which is what we find consistently across studies. We also find people think that you have higher leadership potential when you're willing to snitch on others in the workplace, especially someone that you have a relationship with. But the trade-off is that in all these situations, you're also seen as less of a loyal person when you snitch, whether you're snitching on a close friend, or if you're even just snitching on an acquaintance, and you're also viewed as having lower friendship potential. And so this tension that we identified, part of this paper was sort of outlining and detailing what are these reputational consequences and the trade-offs that people have to be thinking of when faced with this decision to snitch on someone or not. Out of curiosity, if you choose not to snitch, what did you find the judgments were then? So, when comparing to snitching, you are seen as less of a moral person but a much more loyal person. So there's this trade-off between morality and loyalty where when you stay silent, you're seen as a really loyal person and as having higher friendship potential than when you snitch on someone. Yeah, I guess part of what we mean by loyalty is sticking by somebody even if they do something wrong. I mean, you know, hopefully we're not talking about robbing their employers, but we all make mistakes and you would hope that your friends would stick by you rather than turn on you and maybe as you said Tristan, sort of confront you personally. As we mentioned, it just shows how complicated all of these decisions are. Yeah, absolutely. I think Tristan's idea earlier about going to the person and confronting them, there's some research that came out a couple of years ago that looked at what do people actually do in these situations and what they found is that when you are loyal to someone, in those contexts where that person has done something unethical, whether at work or outside of work, almost everyone indicates intentions to speak to that person and not report them. And at least in that first encounter where someone does something wrong, it seems like people are much more likely to protect the person that they're loyal to but also call them out for the bad behavior that they did. I suppose whenever we talk about trade-offs, if the trade-off is really, really skewed in one direction, then the decision is easy, right? But a tough choice is when it's like, oh, like I'm really tall and like I'm not quite sure. Maybe the costs and benefits are kind of evened out. So based on everything we've talked about and someone, as someone who's thought about this topic a lot, can your findings help people to maybe navigate a situation that is really tough and they're not sure whether to snitch or not to snitch? I think what it comes down to is thinking and outlining for yourself. What are your values and how do you want to navigate these situations? Being in these situations is really, really challenging to navigate. And so you might make a decision that ends up being a decision that maybe you didn't want to make if you find yourself in these strong situations without having first thought about how you might navigate them. What kind of person do you want to be? Do you want to be seen as someone who's generally viewed as a moral person? Or do you want to be seen as someone who's generally viewed as a loyal person? That's consistently what we find as a trade off in our studies. And so I think spending time thinking about that for yourself, especially in advance of being in these situations so that they can make the most informed decision that aligns with their values. And is there anything that we can think about maybe at an organizational level? So we've talked about the perspective of an individual, but like, I guess this stuff's going to impact on workplace policies and how people feel comfortable in their workplace to call out behavior that they think is problematic. Yeah, of course. So the first is that organizations should define the values that they want their employees to embody. I think that if they really cared about uncovering wrongdoing and getting people to snitch, that they would make that really clear. Be like, you know, we value loyal employees, but we don't value loyalty over and above fairness and honesty in this organization. And so when you're faced with a situation where your loyalty is on the line and you're not sure exactly what to do, the organization has made it clear, we value honesty, we value fairness much more than loyalty, and so you should snitch. So Zach, I'm wondering if I could spin this back onto you. In that situation, what would you do in the dilemma? Would you be loyal or would you be moral? That's a great question. I think about this a lot. For me, being moral is more important than being loyal in these situations. I think that there's ways outside of these situations to build your reputation as a loyal person, as a loyal and good friend, which is what I strive to do. But in situations where loyalty means overlooking wrongdoing, I think that for me, I would always speak up and snitch on someone because to me, it's not worth compromising my other moral values just for the sake of loyalty. Well put. Well, thank you to Professor Zach Berry from the University of Southern California for going through that with us. I think you've given us a lot to think about and also some very useful life advice. So great to talk to you. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. Still to come, I look at ancient human waste management and the rats who use their sense of smell to save lives. That's all coming up after this. It's that part of the show again. Get ready for the answer to this week's quiz. Earlier we talked about hair. Specifically, how different it seems from the fur that covers other creatures. What we wanted to know was, what's the actual difference between hair and fur? Was it A. Texture? B. Length? Or C. There's no difference? Well, if you answered C, then you got it right. Hair and fur are actually the same thing. The normal length of the hair is an individual and species-specific trait. So, across the breadth of mammals, there are many norms for hair length or fur length. What's really different is the pattern of where it grows. Your dog or cat is basically covered with hair, whereas humans tend to grow hair in a few selected places. And that's one of the things that have changed through evolution in a number of mammal groups. Whales, for instance, are mammals, but they're nearly hairless. As science journalists, we're always scanning the headlines for interesting stories. And every week on Unexpected Elements, we like to highlight a story that we think has gone under the radar and deserves a little bit more attention. So, Christine, what have you got for us this week? So, I just happened to be in Tanzania for my day job recently. And on my last day, I kind of ended up doing a little detour to go to a laboratory and visit some very impressive rats. Nice. So, a lab rat tourie literally for lab rats. Tell us more. What's so special about these rats? So in Tanzania, there's this organization called Apopo. And they use rats to detect tuberculosis or TB from human saliva samples. I ended up meeting Ella, Loretta and Zahara who are super nice. And Zahara kind of gave me quite the welcome with a little hug at the end. So that was great. That was the closest thing to a pet rat that I had. But these rats are not your regular city rodents. They are huge. They can grow up to like 90 centimeters, including their tails. They go through intensive training. And once they're hired, they can work for up to like five to seven years after which they get retired. And yes, they even have a retirement plan that I visited where they're taken care of until their last days. Wow. That's amazing. So Ella Loretta and Zahara, they were the rats, just to clarify, right? They weren't the staff. Technically, they are the staff, but they're rats. Of course they have a pension. Sorry. Yes, they are staff. But yeah, I met the rats who are behind the great work that Apopo does. But I did end up meeting some of the human staff members as well. 90 centimeters sounds massive. So these, presumably, they're different species. Are they to like the rats you might have in New York running around the subway? Definitely. So they're actually what you would call giant African pouch rats. They're found in Tanzania, where they're bred. They're also found in my country, Ethiopia. So these giant African pouch rats, they can detect human saliva. How do they actually do that? So basically, they have the capacity to sniff up to a hundred sputum or saliva in 20 minutes, because they've got about 1,200 nerve endings around their noses, allowing them to sniff very delicate smells. I think, generally, humans have about 400, and so you can imagine how intense their sense of smell is. Because if you think of a hundred sputum in 20 minutes, and you compare that to what the lab machines can do, which is about 15 sputum in a day, then it's not just a question of speed, which is impressive, it's also the cost to the dollar, which brings it down to about one dollar per sniff. Whereas, like, a lab test would cost about 18 USDs on the machine and three dollars from the microscope. So, basically, the rats are not only faster, they're cheaper too. That's really cool. Yeah, they call them hero rats for a reason. It's interesting how the rats have found additional TB cases from the hospitals. And the head of the laboratory, his name is Tafara Aghazou, he was telling me that thanks to these rats, they found new cases that were missed by some of the lab tests that were conducted. And in numbers, he told me that out of, like, 600,000 samples, rats detected 32,000 false negatives which actually had TB. So how accurate are the rats? I'm told their accuracy level is up to 90%, as opposed to up to only 60% accuracy with the microscope. I mean, I'm just kind of blown away by how easy the rats seem to find this. Like, it takes them less than a second, and they can just bang out all of these tests, and yet there we are struggling over microscopes and, you know, testing machinery and stuff in a lab, and we can only crank out 20 in a whole day. It's amazing. The fact that they can screen large numbers of samples much faster than human lab technicians can, and then reducing the time needed for diagnosis. Yeah, it's really impressive stuff. And again, it's a story about rats that is much more positive than them just being vermin and spreaders of disease. So thank you so much, Christine, for sharing that with us and for telling us about rats out there on the front line, and saving people's lives. We've come to the part of the show now where I get to showcase something that I've been listening to recently. And to get us into what I've picked out for this week, I want to ask Christine and Tristan, how does the idea of rats make you feel? Does it make you feel dirty or clean? Does it make you think of dirtiness or cleanliness? I think generally I do think of a little uncleanliness a lot of the time. Yeah, I don't think you would, you know, if somebody said that a hotel was rat-infested, you probably wouldn't want to go and stay there, would you? But the interesting thing is that even though rats are definitely associated with filth and squalor and disease, and we were talking earlier in the show about trash in places like New York City that attracts them, it's our rubbish, right? Like we're creating the mess that is then attracting them. And people who presumably celebrate World Rat Day and have rats as pets, will tell you that rats are really clean animals, as well as being very intelligent and very social. And this got me thinking about an episode of Crowdscience from a few years back, where we looked at how naturally tidy humans actually are, and how we stack up to other animals in the animal kingdom. And it could be that maybe we're the dirty ones. I think the problem comes here that if we're not that clean and tidy most of the time, we don't have particularly harsh penalties. But if you look across the animal kingdom, you find quite a lot of animals that if they're not clean and tidy and really scrupulously hygienic about what they do, the penalties are really quite severe. This is zoologist Adam Hart. He studies some of the cleanest animals on the planet, leafcutter ants. They farm a fungus and they use that fungus to feed their larvae and they're really 100% reliant on it. But for that fungus to grow, they have to have the perfect conditions for fungi to grow. So they have to weed their garden, if you like. What you find in a lot of ants is that they will have middens, we call them, sort of garbage heaps basically, and they gather up little parcels. All of the things that they don't want in their fungus garden. And they'll have a whole string of different types of workers that are transferring that waste and making that flow out of the nest very much one way. They like to climb up trees and drop it so they don't even have to walk on this big waste heap they've made. And the ants that are on the waste heap kind of processing the waste and making sure it disappears as rapidly as possible. They'll pretty much die on the waste. They don't go back into the clean areas once they're covered in all this rubbish. I mean, that's some real commitment to cleanliness there, dying on the rubbish heap rather than contaminating your home. I think it's incredible that there are even animals as, in quotes, simple as leaf cutter ants, actually have this really sophisticated behaviour to be clean. They have these instincts and these behaviours that promote tidiness because they need that for their survival in order to harvest the fungus. And in humans, the costs of being messy or a bit dirty aren't really so life threatening. So evolution hasn't hardwired us to be as scrupulously clean as ants. And I guess, based on the amount of waste that we produce as a species today, you wouldn't argue that we are the cleanest or tidiest of animals. But maybe our ancient human ancestors were better? Here's another clip from that same episode of Crowd Science, where Dr Lisa-Marie Shillitoe from Newcastle University told us about her research into middens or waste heaps. Not from ants, but from human societies living 8,000 years ago. I was working at this site called Çatırıık in Turkey, which is a large early agricultural settlement site. And I was working on the midden deposits, what we would call, I guess, a rubbish heap waste material from kind of food processing, fuel waste and things like that. So these middens at Çatırıık, it turned out, it had a lot of coprolites in them. So coprolite is the word that we use to describe fossilized feces in archaeology. We like our technical terms. They're a little bit more polite, I guess, than talking about ancient poo. So there you go, coprolites. I don't know if either of you have ever heard of that before, but I wanted to show you a picture of an ancient fossilized poo. Does either of you want to describe that? No, I wish I had never seen that. Well, it is brown and sort of sausage-shaped, which is fitting for a coprolite. And this specific example of human fossilized excrement even has a name. It's called the Lloyds Bank coprolite because apparently it was dug up in the 70s beneath the pavement of what later became Lloyds Bank in York. It's a whopping 20 centimetres long and it could be one of the largest examples of coprolites from humans ever found. But the reason why we're talking about this is because coprolites like this one and the ancient rubbish heaps, the midden, can tell you a lot about what people living 8,000 years ago at this Neolithic site of Chattel Hulick were doing with their waste. Chattel Hulick is very interesting actually because we have these neighborhood clusters of buildings and then adjacent to those building clusters, that's where we find the midden deposits. They're the same size as the buildings in many cases. I've got pictures of me sitting excavating them with my head poked out the top. They're quite impressive in terms of the scale, but we see quite clear distinctions between the areas where people were living, so within the buildings, which are actually kept very, very clean, and these large midden deposits. Even at the microscopic scale, when you look at the floor layers within the buildings, they're actually incredibly clean. People were very regularly sweeping out the buildings and in fact we have evidence that they were frequently re-plastered. Quite a lot of whole maintenance basically, kind of keeping them very fresh looking. Very cool I think that you can look back that far into the past and see how tidy somebody kept their living room. Although the way that we just heard about that research, it portrays these people as very clean and tidy, but if they've got rubbish heaps the size of buildings on the edge of their settlements, then they might have had a terrible rat problem. Would they have had the same type of rubbish that we have though, that would like attract rats and rodents like that? That's a great point. I think we throw away a lot of food today, don't we? And maybe people back then were much less wasteful. So one of the things that coprolites can tell you is, I think you can analyze them potentially to tell you what people were eating and what their diets were like. So they are a really fertile resource for scientists like Lisa. Fertile sounds like the right word. I think so. So now that we've expelled all of that, I think we can move on to the end of the show. And it does leave me thinking that humans and rats may be not so different from each other. So in this episode, we have done a deep dive into rats. Christine, what did you bring? I investigated why rat exterminators constantly need to switch up their rat poison, and it's all due to mutating rats. Mutating rats, how terrifying. And what about you, Tristan? I looked at some alternative methods of rat population control around the world, like contraceptives, waste management, and rat on rat warfare. And we were also joined by two experts in rat behaviour. One a neurobiologist who played hide and seek with rats, and the other a psychologist who looks at what happens when humans rat out other people. We also learned about some incredible hero rats who can sniff out tuberculosis, and I looked at how clean and tidy humans are compared to the rest of the animal kingdom. And now, all that's left for me to say is a massive thank you to our panellists. Christine Yohannes in Lamu, Kenya, thank you so much. Asante sana, Anand, kwaheri. And to Tristan Ahtone in Helsinki, Finland, thank you. Obaha, oho, thank you. I'm Anand Jagatia, and the producer was Imaan Moin with Debbie Kilbride, Alice Lipscombe-Southwell, Noa Dowling, and Harrison Lewis. The studio manager was Cath McGhee. Join us next week for more Unexpected Elements.