This is The Allusionist, in which I, Helen Zaltzman, have been learning about and talking about language for ten years. A full ten years since this show launched with two episodes about bras and puns. So much has happened in pod land over that ten years. There was a boom? Podcasts getting bought for tens of millions of dollars? But not this one. Then after the boom, the bust, companies and shows perished. But not this one. Still hoofing along. To celebrate this decade-versary, I am taking a break. The show will be back in early May 2025 with new episodes. Also if there are any topics from the past episodes that you would like me to revisit, let me know. I've got some exciting updates already bubbling away. Also during the break, there will be an illusionist piece called Souvenirs broadcasting on BBC Radio 4 sometime in March. And there will be the return of my other podcast Answer Me This, with new episodes the last Thursday of each month. And things will be keeping lively in The Allusioverse throughout the break, with fortnightly relaxing livestreams with me and my dictionaries, including one this weekend which is open to all at youtube.com/illusionistshow. But with paying members of the Allusioverse, we are watching the new season of Great Pottery Throwdown together and soon we're going to watch Cold Comfort Farm. And we socialise in the Allusioverse Discord community where members are designing their own heraldic coats of arms, they're learning weaving, they're sharing podcasts and TV and book recommendations and supporting one another through this existence. Join us via theallusionist.org/donate. And if you just want to sign up on a free account, you will get very occasional email updates from me about what is happening with the show. So if you want to be reminded in May that this show still exists, that's another option. Today's episode is in the Tranquillusionist style, to give your brain a break while I say words that are not too consequential over a soothing backing track. And this time the words are all the randomly selected words from the dictionary, from every episode of the show, in reverse chronological order. If you've never made it to the end of an episode, you've missed all the randomly selected words from the dictionary, but here they are united. As always, there is a transcript of the episode at theallusionist.org, and if you are curious about any of the spellings, head over there. Let's get on with all of the randomly selected words from the dictionary today. Bine, noun, a long flexible stem of a climbing plant, especially the hop. Yarborough, noun, in bridge or wist, a hand with no card above a nine. Nomological, adjective, relating to or denoting natural laws which are neither logically necessary nor theoretically explicable, but just are so. Grampus, noun, one, a killer whale or other cetacean of the dolphin family, two, British, dated, someone or something, breathing loudly and heavily. Jobbery, noun, the practice of using a public office or position of trust for one's own gain or advantage. Opsimath, noun, poetic slash literary, a person who begins to learn or study only late in life. Ventifact, noun, geology, a stone shaped by the erosive action of windblown sand. Duglore, noun, a rudimentary inner toe present in some dogs, a false hoof on an animal such as a deer which is formed by its rudimentary side toes. Scoot, noun, zoology, a thickened horny or bony plate on a turtle's shell or on the back of a crocodile, stegosaurus, etc. Detritivore, noun, zoology, an animal which feeds on dead organic material especially plant detritus. Univocal, adjective, philosophy and linguistics, having only one possible meaning, unambiguous. Ancerine, adjective, of or like a goose. Famulus, noun, historical, an assistant or servant, especially one working for a magician or scholar. Marcessant, adjective, botany, of leaves or fronds, withering but remaining attached to the stem. Timocracy, noun, chiefly philosophy, one, a form of government in which possession of property is required in order to hold office. Two, a form of government in which rulers are motivated by ambition or love of honour. Lunula, noun, one, the white area at the base of a fingernail. Two, a crescent-shaped bronze age ornament. Edaphic, adjective, ecology of, produced by, or influenced by, the soil. Regulus, noun, chemistry, archaic, a metallic form of a substance obtained by smelting or reduction. Hexiety, noun, philosophy, one, the quality of a thing that makes it unique or describable as this, brackets one. Two, individuality. Whim Wham, noun, archaic, one, a quaint and decorative object, a trinket. Two, a whim. Blunge, verb, mix, brackets, clay or other materials, close brackets, with water in a revolving apparatus for use in ceramics. Paveage, noun, historical, attacks or toll to cover the paving of streets. Cachalot, noun, another term for sperm whale. Yaw, verb, brackets of a moving ship or aircraft, close brackets, twist or oscillate about a vertical axis. Noun, twisting or oscillation of a moving ship or aircraft about a vertical axis. Obolize, verb, mark, brackets, a spurious or doubtful word or passage, close brackets, with an obelis. Kenning, noun, a compound expression in Old English and Old Norse poetry with metaphorical meaning, e.g. oarsteed equals ship. Nival, adjective, of or relating to regions of perpetual snow. Spiplicate, verb, informal slash humorous, destroy or defeat utterly. Geniculate, geniculated, adjective. Bent like a knee, jointed, knotted, verb transitive, geniculate, to form joints in. Noun, geniculation. Veridical, adjective, truth-telling, coinciding with fact, brackets of a dream or vision, close brackets, corresponding exactly with what has happened, or with what happens later, seemingly true to fact. Jeton, noun, a counter or token used as a gambling chip or to operate slot machines. Abort, noun, an object produced supposedly by occult means at a séance. Mouy, noun, an old French measure for capacity, a hog's head, a dry measure for corn, etc. South Africa, a sack of three bushels. Trekt, noun, historical, an allowance of extra weight made to purchases of certain goods to compensate for waste during transportation. Figurant, noun, a supernumerary actor who has little or nothing to say. Urinant, adjective, heraldry. Diving, head down. Noun, urinator, a diver. Rouel, noun, the space between a bed and the wall. A bedchamber where aristocratic French women held receptions in the 17th and 18th century. A morning reception. In France, a narrow lane. Bum bailiff, noun, historical, derogatory. A bailiff who collected debts or arrested debtors. Locoresstive, brackets, lamb, close brackets, adjective, staying in one place. Humorously modelled on locomotive, from Latin restare, to stay still. Zonder, noun, a hot dusty north wind in Argentina. Embrave, verb, transitive, to make showy, to decorate, brackets, spencer, to inspire with bravery. Quadrivium, noun, a medieval university course comprising arithmetic, geometry, astronomy and music. Origin Latin, literally, the place where four roads meet. Like trivia, the place where three roads meet. Dittography, noun, unintentional repetition of words or letters by a scribe or printer in copying a manuscript. Washing, noun, aeronautics, an increase in the angle of incidence of an aeroplane wing towards the tip. Hyperboton, noun, rhetoric, an inversion of the normal order of words, especially for emphasis, as in, this I must see. Cellsitude, noun, loftiness. Prosopapyr, noun, a figure of speech in which an abstract thing is personified, or an imagined or absent person is represented as speaking. Kipe, noun, a hook formed on the lower jaw of adult male salmon and trout during the breeding season. Spitchcock, noun, an eel that has been split and grilled or fried. Verb to spitchcock, prepare, an eel or other fish, this way. Imminent, adjective, existing or operating within, brackets of god, close brackets, permanently pervading the universe, often contrasted with transcendent. Yips, plural noun, informal, extreme nervousness causing a golfer to miss easy putts. Grills, noun, a salmon that has returned to fresh water after a single winter at sea. Metis, noun, anatomy, the opening of a passage or canal. Theogy, noun, one, the operation or effect of a supernatural or divine agency in human affairs. Two, a system of white magic practiced by the early neo-Platonists. Autotelic, adjective, of an activity or creative work, having an end or purpose in itself. Fleer, verb, poetic slash literary. Laugh impudently or jeeringly. Noun, archaic, an impudent or jeering look or speech. Nuncoupative, adjective, law, brackets of a will or testament, closed brackets, declared orally, especially by a mortally wounded soldier or sailor. Rail, noun, usually rails, medicine. An abnormal rattling sound heard when examining unhealthy lungs with a stethoscope. Ultradian, adjective, physiology. Recurring more than once a day, but less than once an hour. Compare with infradian. Bunt, one, noun. The baggy centre of a fishing net or a sail. Two, noun. A disease of wheat caused by a smut fungus, the spores of which smell of rotten fish. Three, verb, one, baseball, of a batter. Gently tap, brackets, a pitched ball. Closed brackets, so that it does not roll beyond the infield. Two, butt with the head or horns. Noun, baseball, an act of bunting a ball. Exiton, noun, physics, a mobile concentration of energy in a crystal formed by an excited electron and an associated hole. The romance. Lactometer, noun, an instrument for measuring the density of milk. Neuotropic, adjective, denoting drugs used to enhance memory or other cognitive functions. Deltiologist, noun, a person who collects postcards as a hobby. Juke, verb, Scottish or Northern English, turn or bend quickly to avoid something. Commodo, noun, technical term for blackhead. Origin 19th century from Latin, literally glutton. Brackets, a former name for parasitic worms, the term now refers to the matter squeezed from a blackhead. Obelis, noun, the thing for doing the obelizing we heard about earlier. A symbol, like a vertically elongated cross, used as a reference mark in printed matter, or to indicate that a person is deceased. To, a mark, brackets, a minus or dividing sign, used in ancient manuscripts to mark a word or passage as spurious or doubtful. Popple, chiefly archaic, verb, brackets, of water, close brackets, flow in a tumbling or rippling way. Noun, a rolling or rippling of water. Hippuric, adjective, denoting an acid, first obtained from the urine of horses, occurring in the urine of many animals, particularly in that of herbivores and rarely in that of human beings. Kōrōshi, noun, Japanese, death caused by overwork. Gastrolith, noun, one, zoology, a small stone swallowed by a bird, reptile or fish to aid digestion in the gizzard. Tu, medicine, a hard concretion in the stomach. Tribometer, noun, an instrument for measuring friction in sliding. Anaclitic, adjective, psychoanalysis, relating to or characterised by a strong emotional dependence on another or others, origin 1920s, from Greek, anaclitos, for reclining. Fartlek, noun, athletics, a system of training for distance runners in which the terrain and pace are continually varied. Origin 1940s, from Swedish, fart, meaning speed, and lek, meaning play. Saros, noun, astronomy, a period of about 18 years between repetitions of solar and lunar eclipses. Exuviae, plural noun, also treated as singular, zoology, the cast or sloughed skin of an animal, especially of an insect larvae. Wabbit, adjective, Scottish, exhausted or slightly unwell. Intrigant, noun, a person who plots something illicit or harmful. Metacrosis, noun, zoology, the ability of some animals, e.g. chameleons, to change colour. Borborygmus, noun, technical, a rumbling noise made by fluid or gas in the intestines. Vatic, adjective, poetry slash literary, predicting what will happen in the future. Libration, noun, astronomy, an apparent or real oscillation of the moon, by which parts near the edge of the disk that are not often visible from the earth sometimes come into view. Phryton, noun, an ancient Greek drinking container in the form of an animal's head or horn, with the drinking hole at the lower or pointed end. Noria, noun, a device for raising water from a stream, consisting of a chain of buckets revolving round a wheel driven by the current. Patulus, adjective, rare, spreading wide like the branches of a tree. Yarak, noun, brackets of a trained hawk, close brackets, fit and in proper condition for hunting. Hapnology, noun, the emission of one occurrence of a sound or syllable which is repeated within a word, e.g. in February, pronounced February. Drabble, verb, archaic, make wet and dirty in muddy water. Anaromancy, noun, the interpretation of dreams in order to foretell the future. Skimmington, noun, historical, a procession intended to ridicule and make an example of a nagging wife or an unfaithful husband. Glows, verb, archaic, one, make excuses for, two, use ingratiating or fawning language, three, make a comment or comments. Catoptric, adjective, physics, of or relating to, a mirror or reflection. Erticate, verb, sting or prickle like a burn from a nettle. Choir, noun, one, four sheets of paper or parchment folded to form eight leaves as in medieval manuscripts. Two, any collection of leaves one within another in a manuscript or book. Three, 25, formerly 24, sheets of paper, one twentieth of a ream. Malversation, noun, formal, one, corrupt behaviour in a position of trust. Two, corrupt administration of public money, etc. Fictile, adjective, made of clay by a potter, of or relating to pottery. Oscultation, noun, the act of listening to sounds from the heart, lungs or other organs with a stethoscope. Estovers, plural, noun, chiefly historical, the right to take wood for fuel, repairs or other necessary purpose from land which one doesn't own, especially land of which one is the tenant or lessee. Icor, noun, one, Greek mythology, the fluid said to flow like blood in the veins of the gods. Two, archaic, a watery fetid discharge from a wound. Very different fluids. Valaity, noun, formal, a wish or inclination not strong enough to lead to action. Jouissance, noun, French, formal, pleasure. Runtable, archaic noun, a foolish reckless person. That's the past five years of randomly selected words. The rest will follow after these messages from our sponsors. Thanks to Rosetta Stone for sponsoring The Allusionist. At the start of a new year, I don't really think of New Year's resolutions. Rather, I think about what I'd like to add to my life and how I want to educate myself. Last year, I did a beginner's course in ASL. This year, I'd like to study another language that is new to me, which is nearly all of them. Rosetta Stone offers their language learning program in 25 different languages, with bite-sized lessons that are fun and immersive. No translation. Rosetta Stone gets right in there with installing the new language in our brains. Start off the New Year with a resolution you can reach. Today, Allusionist listeners can get Rosetta Stone's lifetime membership for 50% off. Visit rosettastone.com/allusionist. That's 50% off unlimited access to 25 language courses for the rest of your life. Redeem your 50% off at rosettastone.com/allusionisttoday. That's rosedoubletastone.com/allusionist. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this show for the past 10 years. Squarespace is our one-stop shop for building a website using their award-winning design templates and adding all the features we want to it, and choosing a custom domain. I have been having some fun with their Domain Name Generator, where you give it some cues and it suggests possible names for your project and how much those domains cost. I put in Entertainment Podcast about language to see what it came up with, and it gave me a bunch of options in several categories, neutral, playful, professional, friendly, informative and quirky. Now, the neutral ones are a bit too neutral, although I was surprised that thewordpodcast.chat is available, and Language Explorers, they also had Language Sexplorers, which is a different show, different kind of entertainment. But I was quite taken with some of the friendly options, Language Buddies and Language Bunnies. And quirky included Grammatango and Wordplay Wonderland, which are pretty charming. Go to squarespace.com/allusionist for a free trial, and when you're ready to launch, save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using the code Allusionist. On with another five years of randomly selected words. Firiac, noun, antidote to venomous bites, etc. Nacelle, noun, one, the outer casing on an aircraft engine, two, chiefly historical, the car on an airship. Gyrus, noun, a ridge or fold on the cerebral surface in the brain. Tattperuscia, noun, a class of compound words in which the first element modifies the second by standing to it in various types of relationship, e.g. possession, as in goat skin, location, as in field mouse, as the object of an action, as in guitar player, and as agent, as in man-made, a compound of this class. Latration, noun, usually facetious, barking. Murricut, adjective, rough or warty with short sharp points. Decoct, verb, to prepare by boiling, to extract the substance by boiling, to boil, to devise. Wasm, noun, an outmoded policy, belief, theory, doctrine or enthusiasm, an ism of the past. Omnicompetent, adjective, able to deal with all matters or solve all problems. Bricole, noun, a medieval catapult for hurling stones, the rebound of a ball from the wall of a real tennis court, a similar stroke in billiards, a rebound. Coronagraph, noun, an instrument for recording distant thunderstorms. Utrechole, noun, a little bag, bladder or cell, brackets, biology, a bladder-like envelope of some fruits, brackets, botany, a chamber in the inner ear, brackets, zoology. Purfl, verb, transitive, to ornament the edge of, e.g. with embroidery or inlay. Noun, purfling, a decorative border, especially around the edges of a violin. Halterez, entomology, the rudimentary hindwings of flies used to maintain balance in flight. Citali, noun, a Spartan secret writing on a strip wound around a stick, unreadable without a stick of the same thickness. Ombouchure, noun, one, music, the way in which a player applies the mouth and tongue in playing a brass or wind instrument. Two, archaic, the mouth of a river. Almakantar, noun, astronomy, a circle of altitude parallel to the horizon, an instrument for determining a star's passage across an almakantar. Ostracon, noun, a pot's herd or tile, especially one used in ostracism in Greece or for writing on in ancient Egypt. Cancreen, adjective, crab-wise, brackets of versus, etc., close brackets, reading both ways, palindromic. Thriddis, noun, inspeciated lettuce juice used, e.g., as a sedative. Florawit, noun, a period during which a person flourished, was most active, produced most works, etc. Liripipe or liripoop, noun, the long tail of a graduate's hood, a part or lesson committed to memory, a silly person. Those are three quite different meanings. Hesternal, adjective, of yesterday. Quillet, noun, a subtlety in argument, a quibble. Waysgoose, noun, a printer's annual dinner or picnic. Kauper, noun, brackets in Hindu and Buddhist tradition, close brackets, the period between the creation and end of the world, reckoned as 4,320 million years and considered as the day of Brahma. Zoanon, noun, brackets in ancient Greece, close brackets, a primitive wooden image of a deity. Inselberg, noun, geology, an isolated hill rising abruptly from a plane. Gainaki, noun, ruled by women or a woman. Plantigrade, adjective, brackets of a mammal, close brackets, walking on the soles of the feet, like a human or bear. Wrangle, noun, rare, gravel given to a hawk to improve its digestion. Bracket, adjective, having feathered legs or feet. I've felt a notice from one episode to another that there's this bird connection. Dugues, noun, a hinged iron collar chained to a wall or post, used in medieval Scotland as a punishment. Elam, noun, brackets, astronomy, in the Big Bang Theory, close brackets, the primordial matter of the universe, originally conceived as composed of neutrons at high temperature and density. Nyctophobia, noun, extreme or irrational fear of the night or of darkness. Midinette, noun, a seamstress in a Paris fashion house. Origin French from midi, midday, and dinette, like dinner, because only a short break was taken for lunch. Eudemonic, adjective, conducive to happiness. Poudre, noun, a sense of shame or embarrassment, especially with regards to matters of a sexual or personal nature. Dromos, noun, an avenue or passage leading into an ancient Greek temple or tomb. Vigesimal, adjective, relating to or based on the number 20. How be it, adverb, archaic, nevertheless. Yubac, noun, geography, a mountain slope which receives little sunshine. Ambervert, noun, a person who has a balance of extrovert and introvert features in their personality. Satyagraha, noun, passive political resistance, especially as advocated by Mahatma Gandhi against British rule in India. Frisket, noun, in painting or crafts, an adhesive substance or stencil used to cover areas of a surface on which paint is not wanted. Zoolotry, noun, rare, the worship of animals. Omofegy, noun, the eating of raw food, especially raw meat. We've had drabble twice. Helen? That's a spreadsheet fail. Logomachy, noun, an argument about words. Can you imagine such a thing? Eubiety, noun, poetic-slush-literary, the condition of being in a definite place. Fugu, noun, archaeology, a form of artificial underground passage or chamber found in Cornwall. Niant, adjective, heraldry, brackets of a fish or marine creature, close brackets, swimming horizontally. Xerophyte, noun, botany, a plant which needs very little water. Jink, one, verb, change direction suddenly and nimbly. Tu, noun, a sudden quick change of direction. Caponnier, noun, a covered passage across a ditch round a fort. Quinella, noun, a bet predicting the first two places in a race, but not necessarily in the right order. Yen, verb, archaic, brackets of a sheep or goat, close brackets, give birth to, brackets, a lamb or kid, close brackets. Byblo, noun, dated, a man's illegitimate child. Proem, noun, formal, a preface or preamble to a book or speech. Kriegspiel, noun, one, a war game in which blocks representing armies are moved around on maps. Two, a form of chess with an umpire, in which each player has only limited information about the opponent's moves. Remouage, noun, the periodic turning or shaking of bottled wine, especially champagne, to move sediment towards the cork. Hellation, noun, the spreading of light to form a fog round the edges of a bright image in a photograph or on a television screen. Aglit, noun, a metal or plastic tube fixed tightly round each end of a shoelace. Tritagonist, noun, the person who is third in importance after the protagonist and deuteragonist, in an ancient Greek drama. Debridement, noun, medicine, the removal of damaged tissue or foreign objects from a wound. Hutment, noun, military, an encampment of huts. Nucle, adjective, anatomy, of or relating to the nape of the neck. Zugma, noun, a figure of speech in which a word applies to two others in different senses, e.g. John and his driving licence expired last week. Wait what? That seems glib. John's dead? There's got to be a better example of Zugma than that. Cacinate, verb, poetic slash literary, to laugh loudly. Levant, verb, British, archaic, abscond, leaving unpaid debts. Vibrocyte, plural noun, zoology, long stiff hairs growing around the mouth or elsewhere on the face of many mammals, whiskers. Moniliform, adjective, zoology and botany, resembling a string of beads. Jogulate, verb, archaic, kill by cutting the throat. Usufruct, noun, Roman law, the right to enjoy the use of another's property short of the destruction or waste of its substance. Straminaeus, adjective, strawy, light, worthless, straw-coloured. I don't think I've ever seen or heard straw-y before, the adjective for being straw-like. Comety, noun, one, an association of nations for their mutual benefit. Two, formal, courtesy and considerate behaviour towards others. Galactagog, noun, medicine, a food or drug that promotes the flow of a mother's milk. Pronk, verb, of an antelope, leap in the air with an arched back and stiff legs. Xeric, adjective, ecology, containing little moisture, very dry. Froust, noun, a warm, stuffy atmosphere in a room. Verb, lounge about in such an atmosphere. Misprision, noun, the deliberate concealment of one's knowledge of a crime. Rowell, noun, a spiked revolving disc at the end of a spur. Lindstock, noun, a long pole used to hold a match to fire a cannon. Yarak, noun, of a train talk again. Helen! There's so many words in the dictionary, Yarak made it in twice! Quadruminous, adjective, zoology, dated, of primates, having all four feet modified as hands, i.e. having opposable digits. Flockmaster, noun, a sheep farmer. Spavin, noun, a disorder of a horse's hawk. Extraposition, noun, grammar, the placing of a word or group of words outside or at the end of a clause while retaining the sense, e.g. It's no use crying over spilt milk. Illywacca, noun, Australian, informal, a small-time confidence trickster. Afferent, physiology, adjective, relating to or denoting the conduction of nerve impulses or blood inwards or towards something, the opposite of efferent. Cobald, noun, in Germanic mythology, a spirit who haunts houses or lives underground. Horst, noun, geology, a raised, elongated block of the earth's crust lying between two faults. Welsh onion, noun, an Asian onion that forms clusters of slender bulbs which resemble spring onions. Oxiput, noun, anatomy, the back of the head. Jacary, noun, a communal uprising or revolt. Decrepitate, verb, technical, brackets of a solid, close brackets, disintegrate audibly when heated. Poetaster, noun, one who writes inferior poetry. Gleat, noun, a watery discharge from the urethra caused by gomerial infection. Toxophyllite, noun, a student or lover of archery, adjective of or relating to arches and archery. Imagineer, noun, a person who devises a highly imaginative concept or technology, especially the attractions in Walt Disney theme parks. Emolument, noun, a salary, fee or benefit from employment or office. Virga, plural virgai, meteorology, a mass of streaks of rain appearing to hang under a cloud and evaporating before reaching the ground. Clouffe, noun, South African, a wooded ravine or valley. Conjuries, noun, a disorderly collection. Extrados, noun, the upper or outer curve of an arch, often contrasted with intrados. Pismire, noun, an ant, from the Middle English piss alluding to the smell of an ant hill and obscure myre, meaning ant. Nombril, noun, heraldic, the point halfway between fess point and the base of the shield. Waterbrush, noun, a sudden flow of saliva associated with indigestion. Osculum, noun, a large aperture in a sponge through which water is expelled. Caprine, adjective, relating to or resembling a goat or goats. Sculph, noun, Scottish, one, a splinter or sliver, two, informal, an annoying person. Masquinonge, noun, another term for musculunge. Musculonge, noun, a large pike that occurs only in the Great Lakes region of North America. Bavadage, noun, rare, idle gossip. Limnology, noun, the study of lakes and other bodies of fresh water. And finally, way back from episode one. Growlick, noun, the entrails of a dead deer. Verb, disembowel, brackets, a deer that has been shot. Those were your randomly selected words from the dictionary from the last decade. Try using them in a very long email today. This episode of The Allusionist and my bosom are supported by Understance. Love to shout out a local Canadian clothing company. They are precious, and I want to support them with my money. Let me be real with you about podcast advertising. Sometimes the sponsors give us some of their products for free so we can talk about our experiences with them. A few months ago, I went along to Understance's flagship store in downtown Vancouver. They gave me a proper bra fitting for the first time in my life, which was revelatory. They let me try on multiple bras and then gifted me some to take home. Here's how much I liked those bras. I then bought more of them with my actual money. Because if you find a good bra, you want duplicates, you want triplicates, you want to be set for years. Check out Understance's wares at understance.com. There is a quiz you can do to find your right bras. They also have super soft cotton sleepwear and underwear, including bike shorts, for chafing protection in summer and giving your bum and thighs a bit of extra warmth in winter. Check it all out at understance.com. Hello there, connoisseur of podcasts from which you learn interesting things. If Curiosity Weekly isn't already in your subscriptions, put it in there right now. Curiosity Weekly from Discovery brings us the latest and greatest scientific discoveries, and explains them even for those of us who don't have a science PhD, which my Doctor of Physics husband will never let me forget. For us Allusionauts, Curiosity Weekly offers so much linguistic content, like how whales converse with each other even from 60 miles away, how marmosets call each other names, how babies learn language even within the womb, how AI learns language even within the womb– joke, AI doesn't gestate in wombs, it gestates in our gallbladders– and there's so much more, like the positive side effects of side effects, how cheese might make us live longer– yay! And a topic we broached recently– cat grief. Curiosity Weekly helps us make sense of some of the biggest questions and ideas shaping our world. Listen to Curiosity Weekly from Discovery, wherever you get your podcasts. I'm already making this Tranquillusionist out of date because here's your latest randomly selected word from the dictionary today. Yarrick! Just kidding, just kidding. Your randomly selected word from the dictionary today is… Pricket. Noun. One. A male fallow deer in its second year, with straight unbranched horns. Two. Historical. A spike for holding a candle. Try using Pricket in an email today. This episode was produced by me, Helen Zaltzman, on the unceded ancestral and traditional territory of the Musqueam, Squamish and Slelworth Teeth nations, with original music by the singer and composer Martin Austwick of palebirdmusic.com. Our ad partner is Multitude. To sponsor this show during 2025, get in touch with them at Multitude.Production. Find Allusionist's show on Instagram, Facebook, Bluesky and YouTube. YouTube's where you need to go for the live streams, where Martin plays soothing music and I read a reference book from my ever burgeoning collection and you can hear or read every episode. Get more information about the topics and guests who appear in them and see the full dictionary entries for the randomly selected words and donate to the show and become a member of the Allusioverse and keep track of the events that are coming up like live streams, like live shows. Who knows what else? And remember to check back in May for new episodes or is at the show's forever home, The allusionist.org.